Cosmetics - Development

      Never-ending technological development, the development of the cosmetics industry will not stop, then the cosmetics to its fourth generation of development towards which direction will it? I believe that: Cosmetic science discipline is likely to be with many other disciplines (materials science, medicine, biological engineering, and agriculture, environment and agriculture, aerospace and microelectronics, optoelectronics and computer, etc.) together toward the nano era. Nm (Nanometer, abbreviated as nm) is a unit of length, one nanometer is a billionth of a meter. All material (or life form life forms) are made of nano-sized particles, namely, the basic elements of the composition of the material composition of molecules and atoms. Nanotechnology is used as the unit particle of matter of molecular manufacturing and the development of new product technology. And this nanoscale materials often exhibit normal particles of different physical and chemical properties, as we all know that certain metals present in the ultra-cold and room temperature under different physical and chemical properties. This technique can be referred to as ultrafine particles of molecular assembly technologies, the goal is to obtain nano-structural materials, the method is to objects which the ultrafine grinding, homogenization, evaporation - condensation process or to carry out physical vapor deposition, sol - gel, electrolysis and high temperature synthesis, the spread of chemical treatment to obtain. Nanotechnology has been applied in various industries, to the traditional industry has brought great innovation to many previously thought impossible become possible, become the focus of attention. Nanotechnology for the cosmetics industry to bring revolutionary change, for example, obtained using silicon nano-technology and silicon compounds (such as Si02), the optical absorption coefficient can be larger than the average a few times, and easy to replace the current widely used skin allergies caused by UV Protectant expensive, people can research and development with special features sunscreen cosmetics. Another example is the cosmetics industry are keen to use SOD (SuperoxideDismutace, superoxide dismutase) to anti-aging, but the SOD itself is difficult to allow the skin to absorb the issue, nano-technology has made this issue is satisfactorily resolved; processing of Chinese herbal medicine can be used nanotechnology so that the active ingredient in some Chinese herbal medicine in the treatment of unintended effects, has been reported to use nanotechnology to medicine Pollen, not only absorbed through the skin is good, and its health effects greatly increased. Nano technology in cosmetic science research began 90 years, as technology continues to improve, day by exploring many ways to improve and increase the effectiveness of cosmetic active additives to maintain its stability and fresh, and make it smooth penetrate into the inner layer of skin, nourish deep cells, which play more with less skin care, skin care effect. For example, in cosmetics research and production of raw materials, the use of nanotechnology, the active substance can also be wrapped only tens of nanometers in diameter, ultrafine particles, the (liposome technology LiposomeCapsulizedTechnology) so that effective protection active substances , and also effectively control the release rate, extend the release time, this technology, the world leader in Germany and Switzerland. Vitamin E nano-freckle cosmetic results, according to the relevant departments of the clinical trials showed that the hydrogen than the passive freckle Quinones effect of fast and clear, and with security and stability, the advantages of non-toxic side effects.