Mac Cosmetics wholesale:Advantages and disadvantages of cosmetics

Cosmetics (makeup) is in addition to simple cleaning supplies outside the human body is used to enhance the beauty of the extent of the material. The use of cosmetics is quite common, especially in the economic base of women have some of them. Currently, most of the market share of cosmetics has been occupied by a small number of multinational companies, these companies often originated in the mid-20th century. Multinational cosmetics company from France, Japan and other countries. Use Usually, "" cosmetic purpose is to enable users of its more attractive "." For most women, the use of cosmetics is that they look more healthy and young. Foundation so that the skin showing the kind of girls have smooth, flawless ideal. Eye shadow, eyeliner and eyebrows dyed oil to make the eyes look bigger, younger, more innocent. Blush to the face showing a young man flush of excitement generated when the effect. Lipstick used to make lips look bigger, so that defects are covered, but also people look younger, because young skin is thin, red lips. A cosmetics and other items covered by the sociological theory that the role of modern cosmetics, not only to produce the effect of young and healthy, while in a way that heat. Wide open eyes, red lips and cheeks flush, can be regarded as the performance of heat, although most women would this make-up style is called: "look sexy." Critics of a cosmetic (Judy Grahn, a feminist) that make up the woman's face looked like a beaten, like: black eye, bruising of the cheek, as well as bloody lips, these images are the "look sexy" alternative understanding. TV or stage equipment used to make color an actor on stage or screen more in line with the role of the shape, make-up than those used in cosmetics for people Dress up the appearance of a greater change: the use of specific repair material, will produce a variety of makeup effects, and even actors dressed like humans can. The application of color mounted the stage is very common, and even have to use common supporting, say, the actors playing journalists should use to make his face in the spotlight will not be too pale. Makeup is also used to train health care workers identify, treat trauma (prints), in clinical treatment, was also used to cover up the scars and spots will affect people's normal social and other defects. Cosmetics are also sometimes used to make look mature, young girls often do so with the mother's cosmetics, when they grew older, they will realize that dress is more young and sexy for their benefit. In Hollywood, both young and old, all make-up, no one felt inappropriate. History The earliest archaeological evidence of the use of cosmetics were found in 4000 BC ancient Egypt. The 5th century, many religious occasions in the Egyptian perfume, sandalwood incense, aromatherapy products, but also mixed with oil, painted up in the personal pilgrimage, or applied to the body as the preservative. The ancient Greeks and Romans also used cosmetics. In ancient Rome and the ancient Greeks used cosmetics containing mercury. Prevalence of the Western world of cosmetics, began in the 17th century, smallpox was originally intended to cure female patients, to cover his face scars. 18th century, Queen Victoria publicly declared that the use of cosmetics is impolite. Use of cosmetics is an act of vulgar acts, only the actors and prostitutes will be used. Before the Second World War, cosmetics have been widely used in the West (although banned in Nazi Germany.) Cosmetics, and other significant events in history can be found in the text after the external links. In China, Jin Hua, "Natural History" contains a "lead for Zhou burning powder" to the coated surface beauty. Hu powder (basic lead carbonate) was used landscaping wives face, known as the Palace of powder. Later Tang Dynasty, "Chinese Ancient Note" on the rouge records are: "starting from the Zhou to the red orchid juice cemented." As produced in the State of Yan, also known as Yan fat. On the lipstick, the "to Dan for the fat lip, lips red like it." Han Ban essays, "Han", there are records of thrush. Wei Jia Sixie in the "Arts for the People", the records of the "but for the powder in the compact multi-book cloves, natural Fenfu." Qing court had hair loss prevention with traditional Chinese medicine, soap products for bath. In Japan, geishas were made with crushed safflower petals lipstick, apply eyebrows, eyeliner and lips, while more than a sumo wrestler with a softer wax used as foundation wax; white paint and powder used to cover the face and back , rouge is used to outline the eye socket and nose. In the Kabuki (geisha apprentice) and apprenticeship ceremony, they fuel the black teeth blacked out. As of 2005, the cosmetics industry has been monopolized by a few multinational corporations, these enterprises are originated in the early 20th century. Among these transnational oligarchs, the longest and largest is the French 尤金舒尔勒 founded in 1909, L'Oreal (L'Oreacute; al), was harmless dye called French company, is currently the enterprise shareholder is Liliane Bettencourt 27.5% , Nestlé 26.4%, and 46.1% of the outstanding shares of public shareholders. In the 1910s, American trio Elizabeth Arden, Helena Rubinstein and Max Factor and other enterprises for the market to make a substantial contribution to the development, which established several enterprises oligopolistic position in the cosmetics market, then, Revlon, and Estée Lauder in before and after World War II, joined their ranks. Some cosmetics enterprises in advertising to some of the criticism as been.