My Mathematics Paper V

3.4 Hypothesis test 4—determine whether there is significant difference of average prices of ALDI stores in three states?Step 1: State the null and alternative hypotheses The null hypothesis illustrates that the average prices of ALDI stores in three states are the same. μ1 refers to the average prices of ALDI stores in New South Wales, μ2 refers to the average prices of ALDI stores in Queensland, μ3 refers to the average prices of ALDI stores in Victoria.   H0: μ1=μ2=μ3Alternative hypothesis illustrates that the average prices of ALDI stores across States is not same. Ha: At least one of the means is different from the others. Step 2: Determine the appropriate statistical test and sampling distributionGiven that four populations and the samples are selected randomly, the F test will be used.. F=MST/MSEStep 3: Specify the Type Ⅰ error rate (α)Significance level: α=0.05Step 4: State the decision ruleDecision rule: If Fobserved>3.35, reject H0; If Fobserved≤3.35, do not reject H0 Step 5: Gather sample data Step 6: Calculate the value of the test statistic Based on the data output, the observed F value is 15.34, greater than the critical F value (3.35). Thus, the null hypothesis is rejected.Step 7: State the statistical conclusion After performing the one-way ANOVA and finding enough evidence to show that there is a significant difference between the average prices of ALDI stores across States.Step 8: Make a managerial decision Based on the data analysis, it proves that the average  prices of ALDI stores across States are not the same. This is because that ALDI claims that they have a national pricing policy; the policy excludes fresh fruit, vegetables and regional bakery lines.4 Conclusions In a conclusion, because of the stinging competition in Australia  Industry, sample data is chosen from grocerychoice.gov.au by Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), which connects the ‘basic staples basket’ price with different supermarkets (1 for Coles/BI-LO, 2 for Woolworths/Safeway, 3 Independents and 4 for ALDI), different states (1 for New South Wales, 2 for Queensland and 3 for Victoria) and different locations. Hypotheses testing based on the data are to help them make the decision in Australia grocery industry. From the first hypothesis testing, it is found out that there is sufficient evidence at the 5% significance level to show that the average price of ‘basic staple basket’ in different supermarkets are not the same, and the price in Coles and Woolworths with large buying power will be cheaper than that in other supermarkets. Furthermore, the second and the third hypothesis testing demonstrate that the average prices of ‘basic staple basket’ will not be influenced by changing supermarkets’ location or operates in other states of these three. Last, the result of the fourth hypothesis proves that the average prices of ALDI stores across States are not the same. This is because that ALDI claims that they have a national pricing policy; the policy excludes fresh fruit, vegetables and regional bakery lines.5 Implications At present, based on the hypotheses listed above, there are some recommendations and implication to investors from . Firstly, it is not necessary for investors to choose the central location of  state or other major area in cities because the average prices of ‘basic staple basket’ are the same wherever the supermarkets locate. It just add operating costs in daily operation and reduce company’s profits.In addition, in terms of the average prices in  and Coles cheaper than other supermarkets, hence, it is important for investors to keep goods in a lower price so as to keep a strong competitive position in Australia grocery industry. 6 ReferencesBlack et al, 2010, Australasian Business Statistics, 2nd edn, John Wiley and Sons Australia.