Fashion: Petty bag charm of a woman with a secret life

Bag as the crowning touch to the spirit of fashion culture, play in people's lives its unique charm, and also plays in the economic field more and more important position. According to statistics, China's annual consumption of package decoration a rate of 33% in 2007, China has lost 12.6 billion digest bag. Petty increasingly popular life () bag products, must identify the market direction and product positioning, creating a new fashion of the road, has become an indispensable charm of a woman with a secret. If you ask a girl Passions in fashion, what is the most favorite fashion items, more than seventy percent of people will choose to handbags and luggage. Because it is equipped with all the most essential fashion, he not only has become a daily essential goods, but also great to meet people's quality of life and the pursuit of material desires. Good creative and diverse varieties Petty not only avant-garde and classical brand, good at adjusting the beauty of the human body, will be leading art, culture, geometric patterns and other elements of harmony among the clever design of soluble bag is a fusion of imagination, innovation, inspiration for the romantic and elegant presentation, the design of all architecture details are never to be time-out values, from start to finish and strive to perfect fusion of man and the package. Its unique style, so early into the market to win a large number of fans in hot pursuit. We understand that petty bourgeoisie are living in a global fashion established a large network of cooperation. As domestic and international brand bags discount base, petty life is a collection of hundreds of brands, hundreds of thousands of stock of the large logistics base, covering all the hot brands, hundreds of brands and deep cooperation. Collection of the latest European and American classic, concentrated in Hong Kong, Japan, Korea fads. Products include high-end purses, shoulder bags, wallets, handbags, cloth, cartoon bag, cosmetic bag, evening makeup bags, wallets, belts and other leather goods of high middle and low. According to women in their needs, design a realistic and unique marketing programs bags, ladies ladies can always find a suitable style. With a secret blend of The bags must be of urban women have in common is that both have a simple design and perfect functionality. China and glossy patent leather from the wire to the fine lines of the spread of animal leather; derived from the flower color to the coffee glamorous bronze introverted; Petty sought to use the changing life style and attractive features to create the perfect brand in the minds of urban women in a unique position. Both for the normal fashion enthusiasts, or professional fashion designer, with luggage and fashion sense for the people as a whole is undoubtedly important in terms of temperament. At this point, the petty bourgeoisie life, from the whole to strive to perfect every detail. Technology and the traditional spirit of the modern fashion combined production of fine, fine all control steps are implemented. The avant-garde with a reasonable idea of the perfect blend of fashion and utility, so that the brand maintained a unique charm. Petty bourgeoisie life style bag with their own brands and specialty services to create attractive woman out of the 08 new fashion trend, its products became indispensable to white-collar ladies living essential 