collagen "peptide" is New latest anti-aging technology,

Collagen on the human skeleton, organs, eyes, hair, the important role of self-evident. It accounts for 35% of the bone, skin, 80 %..... play support, protection, restoration of human tissues and organs to the effect that women dream of the "anti-aging, beautiful skin," the youth element. However, according to human trials showed that 30 million daltons molecular weight were more than ordinary collagen, absorption and utilization of the human body to stay only between 2% -40%, even absorbed by the body will be digested by the body and re- loss. Bottlenecks in the absorption of human collagen to make the dream of youthful women are expected to have become impossible. Creation of human collagen peptide absorption and utilization of the legendary 100% China has the two scientists most worthy of love, one is solving the world hunger problem of the people Father of Hybrid Rice - Yuan Longping. Another is so in love with Dr. Wu Qinglin, chairman of peptides, both of his collagen peptide national patent technology, to solve the health of China's 1.3 billion population problem! Have a healthy beautiful, for women, the absorption of collagen is to determine the health of women and the effect of the beautiful key. Dr. Wu Qinglin Preparation of two patents, creating the world's first loss】 【anti-collagen peptide, to give 100% of the human body absorbs collagen law. Experiments confirmed: only 0.01% loss】 【anti-collagen peptide solution to the pure variety has good resistance to radiation effects, and can for the texture, bone, viscera, muscle, hair, eyes, connective tissue, collagen to provide adequate protein. In fact, peptides early as 1902, the British Nobel Prize winner, had been confirmed: the human body to absorb material best way to peptide, thus the existence of irrefutable evidence of the peptide with an important role.   Collagen peptide repair delay aging women beautiful skin texture If the collagen compared to Apple, then Apple is the essence of collagen peptide, it is easily absorbed, can pass directly into the fabric of organizations, human shields, a full lock glue, glue effect, while the loss of properties with its anti-, in within the organization to remain in texture, the texture of tissue repair, which is extraordinary aging female significance. As early as two thousand years ago, the "Yellow Emperor" to determine the "Women account for seven" female maturation process, after further analysis of modern beauty experts, the same organization confirmed that female texture of collagen metabolism cycle of seven days the young woman dominated state . Seven days in the United States the world's first loss】 【anti-collagen peptide, is through the fabric repair and maintain the young women in the normal cycle of seven days to delay the aging women, beautiful skin. 