Markor Home of Hope Award Taobao brand marketing on-line to

Home News  Sina (Edit  snow) Business-to-Consumer (business-to-customer) is a new type of e-commerce model home industry, referred to as B2C. This model is a network of commercial retail model, businesses use the Internet to sell directly to consumers online products and the sales service. To buy furniture after visiting the market without spending a lot of time, for the design and renovation without tangled bad mood, furniture, industrial transformation, everything you can get online, Happy net as DIY.  2010 年 8 26, is committed to provide consumers with personalized The homeopathic trend   - Home of Hope Tour Taobao shop is inevitable   maturity of shopping patterns in the network today, more and more consumers adapt to and in love with this new way to shop, more convenient, faster and better service the demands of today's consumers, but also Xin home tour the target consumers of services. Markor Vice President Zhao Ge stores nationwide, said: consumer's shopping needs. online shop set up, will make the country's consumers can purchase homes home tours Xin quality products, so that 'the network without borders', give full play to the advantages.  for the future, large furniture shop will visit, said Zhao Ge, opened shop in this philosophy is a means communication, consumer brands, products, and have some familiarity with the basis to rely on the smooth operation of . E-commerce will be the future trend of consumption, for Markor family home, Hope House Tour is the first step on this road.   fast and convenient - home online shopping without Borders   2009 年 11 month, the Hope House brand launch tour opened Markor household products business unit of independent fields, greatly welcomed by consumers. In order to provide consumers with more efficient, quality service, August 26, committed to provide consumers with personalized style It is understood that users will be set from time to time hold for the spike activity,, more benefits to consumers. Home sales director  Xin Feng Liu tour briefing, tours of Hope to offer the furniture products come from the global collection, the number of each product is not a lot, but each piece has elegant taste, style,, unique features, is a unique taste,, distinctive, fashion consumers paradise. As each Markor stores are equipped with dedicated design centers, home Taobao Xin tours also have a professional home decoration consultant services for consumers through the network to answer decorated home problems, home decorated to provide professional advice. Importantly, Xin tours not only provide a unique home furnishings products and quality services, we also provide professional home decoration ideas, and guide consumers to understand the world trend of cutting-edge decorated home, according to the characteristics of individual consumers and different way of life to help consumers with home furnishings to change facial expressions, to create for their own private domain.