英语绕口令  by搜集

每天读一遍 舌头更无敌 来源： 杨雨的日志 1. Can you can a can as a canner can can a can? 你能够像罐头工人一样装罐头吗？ 2. I wish to wish the wish you wish to wish, but if you wish the wish the witch wishes, I won't wish the wish you wish to wish. 我希望梦想着你梦想中的梦想，但是如果你梦想着女巫的梦想，我就不想梦想着你梦想中的梦想。 3. I scream, you scream, we all scream for ice-cream! 我叫喊，你叫喊，我们都喊着要冰淇淋! 4. How many cookies could a good cook cook if a good cook could cook cookies? A good cook could cook as much cookies as a good cook who could cook cookies. 如果一个好的厨师能做小甜饼，那么他能做多少小甜饼呢？一个好的厨师能做出和其它好厨师一样多的小甜饼。 5. The driver was drunk and drove the doctor's car directly into the deep ditch. 这个司机喝醉了，他把医生的车开进了一个大深沟里。 6. Whether the weather be fine or whether the weather be not. Whether the weather be cold or whether the weather be hot. We'll weather the weather whether we like it or not. 无论是晴天或是阴天。 无论是冷或是暖， 不管喜欢与否，我们都要经受风霜雨露。 7. Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers. A peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked. If Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers, Where's the peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper picked? 彼德派柏捏起一撮泡菜。 彼德派柏捏起的是一撮泡菜。 那么彼德派捏起的泡菜在哪儿？ 8. I thought a thought. But the thought I thought wasn't the thought I thought I thought. If the thought I thought I thought had been the thought I thought, I wouldn't have thought so much. 我有一种想法，但是我的这种想法不是我曾经想到的那种想法。如果这种想法是我曾经想到的想法，我就不会想那么多了。 9. Amid the mists and coldest frosts, With barest wrists and stoutest boasts, He thrusts his fists against the posts, And still insists he sees the ghosts. 雾蒙蒙，冰霜冻， 手腕儿空空，话儿涌， 只见他猛所拳头往柱子上砸， 直说自己把鬼碰。 10. Badmin was able to beat Bill at billiards, but Bill always beat Badmin badly at badminton. 巴德明在台球上能够打败比尔，但是打羽毛球比尔常常大败巴德明。 11. Betty beat a bit of butter to make a better butter. 贝蒂敲打一小块黄油要做一块更好的奶油面。 12. Rita repeated what Reardon recited when Reardon read the remarks. 当里尔登读评论时，丽塔重复里尔登背诵的东西。 13. Few free fruit flies fly from flames. 没有几只果蝇从火焰中飞过去。 14. Fifty-five flags freely flutter from the floating frigate. 五十五面旗子在轻轻漂浮的战舰上自由的飘扬。 15. There is no need to light a night light on a light night like tonight. for a bright night light is just like a slight light. 像今夜这样明亮的夜晚，就不需要点一盏夜灯，因为明亮的夜灯也会变得微弱。 17. A pleasant peasant keeps a pleasant pheasant and both the peasant and the pheasant are having a pleasant time together. 一位和气的农民养了一只伶俐的野鸡，而且这位和气的农民和这只伶俐的野鸡在一起度过了一段很美好的时光。 18. How many sheets could a sheet slitter slit if a sheet slitter could slit sheets? 如果裁纸机能裁纸的话，一个裁纸机能裁多少张纸呢？ 19. Mr. See owned a saw and Mr. Soar owned a seesaw. Now See's saw sawed Soar's seesaw before Soar saw See. 西先生有一个锯，萨先生有一个秋千。现在在萨先生看见西先生之前，西先生的锯锯断了萨先生的秋千。 20. If you're keen on stunning kites and cunning stunts, buy a cunning stunning stunt kite. 如果你非常相要好的风筝和精彩的表演，就去买一只漂亮的，灵巧的风筝吧。 21. Ted sent Fred ten hens yesterday so Fred's fresh bread is ready already. 特德昨天给弗莱德送去了十只母鸡，所以弗莱德的新鲜面包已经准备好了。 22. A Finnish fisher named Fisher failed to fish any fish one Friday afternoon and finally he found out a big fissure in his fishing net. 一个名叫费希尔的芬兰渔民在一个星期五的下午未能捕捉到任何鱼，结果他民现他的渔网上有一个大裂口。 23. Franc's father is frying French fries for his five fire-fighter friends after they finished a fire-fighting in a factory. 在结束对一家工厂的灭火战斗以后，弗兰克的父亲在为他的五个消防队员朋友炸制法式土豆(炸薯条)