Fruit market is booming supply of adequate quality and cheap

As the Spring Festival approaching, the city's fruit market fruits and demand increases. Carrefour in the city, the Soviet Union Resources and other major supermarket fruit, fruit sales continue to climb. The streets of large and small fruit shop, is a colorful, wide variety of colored fruits, dazzling, fragrant, it is a pleasing landscape, beauty and the pre-holiday hot market.   busy stocking large fruit wholesale fruit market supply   the adequacy of the Spring Festival? price movements will be like? reporters that issues of public concern with Min, wholesale fruit market rushed to an interview. I saw in the market, five or six ten business households, families are busy with preparation   is to catch a cargo of fruit under the Li Chuan busy business operators shall not be idle moment, despite the cold, but wearing a sweater, he is still sweating profusely. He told reporters that his family had almost 20 tons of cargo is finished, there are 20 tons is on the way, it is estimated will be able to get home tomorrow night.   fruit wholesale market, according to the relevant person in charge of a reserve market dealers this year, the volume increase than in previous years, be prepared for each business operators about nearly 50 tons of cargo. In addition, more than half of rental business operators are still producing fruit, nearly a hundred tons of cold storage of fruit, fruit appeared on the market once the New Year supply tension,, and businessmen who will be immediately added Crane preservation from the origin to ensure market supply.   apple, citrus similar to play a leading role   reporter learned that the market all winter fruit varieties, Sha Tang orange, citrus, apples, oranges, grapefruit, watermelon and other foot 40 kinds, in addition, there is a small batch of rambutan, longan, watermelon, grapes, jujube, coconut, persimmons,, kiwi fruit and other 40 kinds of quality, but also relying on their own characteristics and attract different consumer groups.   According to reports, Min fruit wholesale market on the quality of fruit, mainly from Shimonoseki fruit wholesale market in Nanjing, while the ordinary winter fruit is purchasing wholesale customers come spontaneously to the origin. If Shatang orange, grapefruit, mainly from Fujian, Apple mainly from Shaanxi, Shandong, pomelo, watermelon, mainly from Hainan. Yacon also from Xinjiang, fruit shape just like potato, but more nutrients and taste crisp, full of water have become the darlings.   Currently, citrus fruits play a leading role in the sales. Citrus Zhejiang and Hunan, Jiangxi tribute orange,, Hubei, orange, pomelo, Fujian, Guangdong, Sha Tang orange and other varieties have brought together the city, a highlight of fruit sales. Apple is the second after another Qiaoxiao citrus varieties. With Apple's replacement, in previous years, Fuji Crystal Shandong domination was listed this year, Fuji Crystal Shaanxi break, and its water large, moderate sweetness, bright color and other characteristics, and soon won the consumers. As various types of apples at a different level, the price disparity as well. Ordinary Fuji, origin mainly in Shaanxi and Shandong provinces, sales have also maintained steady growth.   quality and low price guarantee   Throughout the city there is the Spring Festival this year, fruit market, can be summarized as three main features: high quality, cheap, safe and secure. The city this year to increase fruit and inventory, forecasting price concessions than in previous years. Business operators say, although many are now rising prices, but market competition is so, once the fruit to form a During the Spring Festival, fruit prices will not rise.   fruit during Chinese New Year in order to protect the public and the public continue to file They will all fruit dealers together to ask you to organize the supply of good fruit, transport and storage aspects of the work, and shall not take the Spring Festival price gouging. Preganglionic, Min agricultural trading center on the test every batch of goods to strict customs, requires that all provinces must provide quality of fruit prove the province of fruit, you will need to provide certificate of origin. On this basis, each batch of substandard sampling done to ensure public food safety. Members of the public can enjoy the full, safe to eat a variety of delicious fruit. (Ling Qiu)