gucci belt Life just a mirror, the number of incense edge pa

the journey of life, some are inevitable, some are accidental. Inevitably there are occasional, and occasionally there are also inevitable. God arranged for us to make parents do their children, brothers and sisters do, is inevitable; but why me and you, not you and him, but it is accidental. A life of gestation, birth is inevitable; However, after courageously fighting the, past the layers can be bred successfully pass was accidental. In the big world, we can meet together and do couple, friends, colleagues do, is incidental; together every day we live, work, under the same blue sky, but it is inevitable. Whether accidental or inevitable, is margin.  ;    life has been made by a relative from the heart, are all things in the world of the phase, the heart does not move, all things neither moving, the heart the same, all things are the same. Mei Xiang is willing to friends laugh about, do not complain. Leisurely, heart, with the nature, revel. Destined for a life to change, and only in the hundred years later, that a bloom time. Moment is eternal. Zen also sit, the line also Zen, flowers and the world, like a leaf, the spring flowers from green, fall to Yepiao Ling, Infinite Wisdom heart at ease, natural body language silent movement.     Buddha said: Red see through the ups and downs but; life is but a realization of impermanence; love see through but everything is nothing more.   between ups and downs in the sea of bitterness among the struggling, few can fathom, \Between impermanence, they would understand all the whole thing apart, have clamored to get the job; parting between the joys and sorrows of people not help the slightest. Things in the world, its own edge off the origin,, fate edge scattered. Affinity for the poly, missed the San ... ...   eachother to the highest power to, life and death and how? Affinity Ye Hao, missed worth mentioning, let it popularity, God margin, bonds of the Buddha edge, karma, bad pratyaya, Nie Yuan, love, karma, marriage, lasting bonds, revel, inverse edge, life margin, Laisheng Yuan, unfinished margin, tertiary edge ... ... fate covered the sky, and all with it.   All good things come to an end, there is no edge of eternity, to have with the blooming annihilation ... ...    some people, dealing with for decades, thousands of miles across the heart and mind always; some people, chance meeting, is only a shadow of the journey of life, hastily passing, but it can lead to friends, life is difficult to forget.   thing on earth is so helpless,, destined to free copies of those who have to miss.   acquaintance is the edge. Have been very far apart, you in the South, I am in the north; you in the countryside,, I am in the city; I was in China, you are in a foreign country; at a crossing point on a certain day, you come to me to stop walking in the footsteps hurried along , thus beginning a life together hand in hand through the road.   accompanied by a margin. Childhood may also be \Two hearts out of the spark, the two also have a wonderful feeling, this feeling is \From encounter to the acquaintance, from acquaintance to phase Xu, Xu from phase to love,, from love to spend, each finds the other is to accompany their journey through life of that individual. To accompany this spend, are willing to offer all kinds of hardships endured, suffered worth of crime.     friends margin. You may have many friends, maybe only a handful of your friends. When you are upset that he chat with you, you are happy he is with you joy, you are confused,, he was over to help you. \Walking down the street one day, confronted by her. You know her trance for several lifetimes, stares there. Pass, she suddenly turned to smile at you, so you can resist, to see Ping Ping Ting-ting away in her mind a long time can not be calm.   meet a margin. Adrift in a foreign country, home old friends met one day all of a sudden, two or feud, have vowed to no longer between eternity. After going through storms in life, you discover that all the hatred, all the hate, all the resentment, are turned into the clouds, gone with the wind. \    Nostalgia is the edge. Far from home, dreaming about the flow of home gurgling streams, curl of smoke rising in front of the old willow tree willows soft,, graceful dance with the wind, blowing across piccolo boy, there are folks familiar accent. Nankeyimeng woke up I discovered, can not help but want to cry.   convention is the edge. You and he (she) agreed then accompanied the afterlife. Bridge of Sigh, Meng Po trembling hands refused to take over your bowl of magic potion, insisted until his (her) Tong Fu netherworld, until accompanied by Takumi.   \opposite did not know \\  ... ... ----------------    --------- Love is everywhere.    mirror short life, the number of incense edge past life .... What is margin? Edge, that is, no matter where you are, in what circumstances, there is always somewhere in the control of a pair of invisible hands with you so that you can not escape, no escape. The so-called doomed it.  edge to the go, gather the loose edge, the origin of the raw, off the edge off. Red feet, but trapped Among living beings, benevolence,, though small, also let me Buddha of compassion. One word love, ice on the Fire, is violent and ice melt, ice melt is the fire out. Therefore, the Buddha said is not said. A life such as living in the forest of thorns, the heart is not moving the people do not frivolous, fixed is not injured; such as human heart is frivolous, the pain in the bones of their bodies hurt, so feel the world all sorts of pain.        Buddhist, said: \      back is the edge. Person's life, was cut into a paragraph. Childhood, youth, youth, middle-aged, middle-aged, elderly, such as film, rest is a picture shown, turn up to form a vivid and moving drama series. When you pick up the album, dusty, open the memory of what many fond memories of scenes poured my heart. Each episode, all in an unforgettable edge.   edge of life. A person to this world naked, struggling with ups and downs in the vast sea, how many sweets and have gone through many twists and turns rough. For money, for status, for reputation, for all the things they think should run around the pursuit of hard work, and ultimately come to naught, silent.