men leather belts Lang China's real crisis is a crisis of ig

Lang, known as China's \constructive comments, also known as \He was on August 2 at the mouth of the \China's economy is still facing a crisis  8 2 December, afternoon speech, Professor Lang said that the Chinese economy will still face a crisis, the crisis is due to deterioration of investment environment, caused by overcapacity, which, the government adopted six policies: agricultural reforms, four trillion capital injection, auto appliances to the countryside, ten industrial revitalization programs, health care reform, bank credit, but the first half of the nearly seven trillion of bank credit most of the infrastructure into a state-owned enterprises, with 60% in infrastructure, is in fact the excess capacity of future to make up for today's excess capacity; another 40% credit for state-owned enterprises, state-owned enterprises to get credit later, the consequences of a large number of bank credit into the stock market, the other is began land speculation, there have been constant throughout \ Professor Lang believes that the current stock market has three funds, the manufacturing sector funds,, bank credit funds, hedge funds into the property market are hedge funds, credit funds into the property market pick up, the stock market boom. Come in the next two to three quarters, will inevitably result in inflationary expectations. fourth frame carriage driving China's economyProfessor Lang  raised again in his famous \exploitation of workers \The whole industry chain, they have mastered the pricing, most of the profits earned by the Americans to go. Lang said that China is simply not a big manufacturing country, only to master the pricing, can be called a true master of the industry, in fact, a big manufacturing country really should be the United States, but at present, the whole industry chain is not the most part of the value of \\ appears in Lang, driving the Chinese economy's \depletion of growth crisis, \ Professor Lang said, the only chance today's China is the growth of private enterprise profits, drive the economy, boost domestic demand,, the source must be a real corporate profits, only the profit it can generate a snowball effect, Only a snowball effect caused profits to be able to really pull the community demand. Allow entrepreneurs to make more money, he made more bonuses to his employees, after we have more money to get a greater capacity to spend, this is the true source of domestic demand, while consumption of naturally occurring after snowball effect of corporate profits will increase after the investment of more money into, and then make more money and then transferred to reinvest his profits to reinvest, then growth, then investment, then growth, which Unlike infrastructure, one-shot deal, but never without a long-term snowballing effect. It is only through this method, it can really lift China's domestic demand. The only sources of domestic demand in China, that is, the profits of the private economy.Professor Lang  recommendations should strive to promote the 6 +1 of the whole industry chain of the efficient integration and promote the integration to be able to create profits, and create profits have a snowball effect, this is a way of stimulating domestic demand, the traditional labor-intensive industries to help 6 +1 chain for efficient integration, the world's top industries are efficient compression industry chain, so chain smaller, faster, cost of natural decrease, a substantial increase in profits. China has no real high-tech enterprises Professor Lang's speech today, striking phrase, that \ Professor Lang believes that only by establishing a rule-based system known as high-tech engineering can, and only in this process is rigorous systems engineering process the request, your quality of output is identical. As long as the stability of quality assurance, before they can mass production. China also has a talent market, the United States did not. Is the U.S. not talent? Not the talents they did not, because they were looking for screws. Only China to look for talent, because you lack the system works. process flow, once established, you as Americans search for the screws on the process flow,, and only in this process is rigorous systems engineering process the request, your quality of output is identical. To create this process, this nation must be a know the rules, abide by the rules of the nation, in order from the heart, from the basis set up this system,, because it is an absolute rule.China's lack of international rules  Professor Lang said that the current process of internationalization of the Chinese economy there are certain problems, mainly the lack of legal rules of the game. example,, he said, the farmers know when the first farm to dig irrigation ditches, to carry water to where it is needed to irrigation ditches dug at random if you do not open the gate, it must be flooding. The current process of internationalization of the Chinese economy is not digging ditches to allow water to spread out. ditch the rules of the legal system. Legal rules of the game without a country, must eat the small, the strong eat the weak, must be our days more and more sad. the absence of legal rules of the game, and a hundred fifty years it was no different powers of aggression,, past national powers should not have guns guns for the purpose of aggression, because we do not have international rules, through internationalization are achieved. All this is because \Professor Lang  call, open at the same time, to develop a rules of the game to protect themselves, while some industries are not open, such as retail, which is called strategic industries. the end of his speech, Professor Lang concluded, \, nor the manufacturing crisis,, but our ignorance of the crisis the nation! \