boys belt No money you will love me

(So people feeling it!)See a show, hostess of the momentum must we ask a male guest, why do you care so much about money, men and guests that \Male guests smile, said: \The man willing to pay a little money to compensate you. All visitors are disdained such an argument, the man slowly out of the first price of \Love? more important is to give up his own personality \Then a man out a second price \moved around his girlfriend looked at him. Only a few people accept this half a million, one person said: \The third price \Half of the men remained silent, the other half of the men shy, said: \refused him. \A man said: \thoughtfully. Then a man out of a fourth the price \Woman said: \? \things that I can achieve great success, I can help others, so that makes sense of life. \Only one person still chose to give up, everyone's eyes with a very strange to see him, he explained: \While moving, but I moved to pay my own million people, and not give up the million others, his views are admirable, but unrealistic. \money. Before that person or that person, his behavior and evaluation of the change only because of the money has completely changed; love is priceless, and only the face of much or how little time. More money on a high. All are priceless are compared with the money,, the museum's treasures, money can buy, buy to steal and rob you can hire someone and then not,, then you can start a war, as long as you have enough money. Iraq needs the U.S. to fight what is money; What is the use of, or the money, but is a money exchange for money in the game going. All the audience stunned, remembering their own life. Xiang Tiaocao when the excuse is not money, but for a reason: \you, ten thousand is to respect you, respect equal to ten times the insult? Guest said, I do not want to explain the quantitative result for the qualitative change, love is not much or how little qualitative change in the problem, but, in the name of the love between you is not called if through the exchange of love. So he is not taking money for love, but your title,, love has gone, it is still priceless! How can you call love bad love? All humanity has a price, but priceless, when you use the money for the time, humanity has been lost,, the price you sell the original human nature has nothing to do with you. Finally, said one guest, and I believe in love,, I believe that all humanity, so I try to make money,, love of money. I just do not want my love and human tests by other people's money, money, nothing more important? ? Note: The money is important, or even take your love! Money becomes more and more in today's world have the ability to really almighty. We have to admit that today people love money more than ever, and as post said, if you have 5 million, what kind of woman can not play it? What kind of guy you can not find it? I am afraid a great chance of scary! But I believe that true love still exists priceless, but we ordinary people in ordinary life is difficult to have, we hold eachother to each other when his girlfriend feel very own loyalty can be a matter of fact it? She can hold it? Can you hold on? Before money. Really awful, maybe tomorrow if your partner is facing a lot of money people will care when you are away the temptation. For this sentence, \but unrealistic '. \Really powerful magic of money, let us work together to make money now! Had said that money can not buy love, but we see the phrase \. '\Ah money,, money!