International Football

July 2008, "Daily Telegraph"  published in the Los Angeles Ronaldo Zhu Shui photos appeared, and claimed that this was still with text, "Red Devils" Manchester United team arrived in Los Angeles, the effectiveness of the big names they went straight to a nightclub. Meanwhile, an ankle injury, he not only put down the cane dance with four models, and the consumption of ten thousand pounds worth of champagne. The article also suggests, C Luo act of drinking and playing Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson will certainly furious.     However, according to Deng C Lo's attorney, said Ravi, when the C Lo vacation in Los Angeles, Sir Alex Ferguson and Manchester United's medical staff all know. "He did go to a nightclub, but no alcohol. In Los Angeles, he never touched liquor. For him, does not drink is discipline, because he was very seriously injured his health and recovery." Deng Ravi also said that Ronaldo is just a private corner in the club with my friends and did not lay down their crutches to dance, his drink is refreshing non-alcoholic  beverages.     In order for the old love will Mingbu Ping, Ferguson has issued a statement, Ronaldo said he was willing to testify, and described it as an absolute professional players. "Daily Telegraph" Morris lawyer, said the newspaper accepted the allegations of false reports about them, and to Real Madrid's Ronaldo is playing for an apology. Ronaldo has received compensation in respect of the newspaper, but did not disclose the amount.Xinhua News Agency, Washington United States World Cup 2022 Bid Committee announced on the 8th, former U.S. President Bill Clinton will participate in next month for the FIFA Executive Committee for the final statement.     FIFA  will be held December 2, 2010 Zurich, Switzerland, announced in 2018 and 2022 the ownership of the right to host two World Cups. As the U.S. 2022 World Cup Bid Committee Honorary President Clinton will be December 1 to speak to the FIFA executive committee to make a statement to try to convince FIFA 2022 World Cup will be brought to the United States. Competition with the United States the right to host the 2022 World Cup along with Australia, Japan, South Korea and Qatar.  