convenient maintenance and reliable performance and so on.

The purpose of the  is to grind materials in the fields of building materials, mining, metallurgy and chemical industry. The materials must be non-flammable and non-explosive materials such as: limestone, calcite, barite, dolomite, potassium feldspar, marble, talcum, gypsum, kaoline, medical stone, rock phosphate, manganese ore, iron ore, glass, ceram, active carbon,carbon black,fireproof materials, heat preservation materials, chemical materials and so on(300 kinds of materials). The materials should have the hardness less than 7 in Moh's scale and humidity less than 6 percent. The granularity of the end products can be adjusted from 30 to 325 meshes.Working Principle Of ball Mill:After the materials are put into the grinding room of the main equipment, the grinding roll swings outward and presses closely upon the grinding ring due to the centrifugal force in rotation of the main shaft. The shovel carries materials to the space between the grinding roll and grinding ring, and materials are ground as the grinding roll rolls. After being ground, the powder is selected by Separator via the cycle wind of the blower and the rough powder will be back to the grinding room for regrinding. The proper powder is brought into the powder collector together with airflow. The powder comes out as end products while the airflow goes back to the powder collector in cycling to make the machine work normally. The increased airflow comes out after purification.The  is widely applied in mineral classification, cement, fireproof materials, glass, pottery, chemical industry and so on. It can grind all kinds of rocks and grinding materials. There are two ways of grinding: the dry process and the wet process.Working Principle Of Ball Mill:The Ball mill can be divided into lattice type and overflow type according to different beneficiation methods, and this machine is two lattice-type . The materials from the feeding fittings enter evenly to the first bin of the milling machine via the feeding hollow axis when it works. There is a ladder-like or ripple-like scaleboard in the first bin, and different specification steel balls are installed in the bin. When the cylinder rotates and produces centrifugal force, the force carries steel balls into a certain height and then makes them fall to strike and grind the materials. After coarse grinding in the first bin, the material then enters into the second bin via a single layer partition board. There is a scaleboard and steel boards in the second bin, so the materials are further ground. In the end, the powder is discharged by output material board.Features Of The Ball Mill:This kind of machine has advantages of easy operation, convenient maintenance and reliable performance and so on.