On-the-spot visit extensive investigation "campus football" Asian games during busy constantly

On-the-spot visit extensive investigation "campus football" Asian games during busy constantly All people in guangzhou Asian happy, all people are in for the Asian games on the China's football, but "was so concerned due" after all just a small part of the Chinese football, at least, the campus football, youth football related working personnel, in guangzhou Asian actively working, during  the future of Chinese football, also more juvenile football is in them. "Guangzhou Asian period, we diverge to national key areas, key cities of youth  the development status of the world cup football shirt investigation, and obtained first-hand material, the national youth soccer activity on next construction and planning new national youth soccer development outline would benefit both." The Chinese football association teenagers and social development director SunZheDong told reporters. "This research involving range is very wide, main area is divided into east China district, south China area, the central region, southwest area and the northeast area, in these key area, jiangsu, guangdong, hubei, sichuan, liaoning is our focus of the work, after all, they are our football big provinces, with considerable universality and representative; in addition, Beijing, tianjin, Shanghai, chongqing four municipalities spanish teams football topsof youth football development situation in our research scope; of course, as dalian, shenyang, Qingdao, chengdu, wuhan and nanjing such football development the key cities, also must see." SunZheDong said. "In the past, we Chinese football first impression is false, for teenagers bet on black, also always said hasting, no planning, but through on-the-spot interviews, investigation, we found that many parts of the youth football or job done very prosperous. Such as jiangsu, 10 years ago, when the national make professionalism, the youth football to the market, their work is relatively lags behind, was once received criticism, but now, they this rely more on government, sport sector support mode or very suitable for China's youth football. Now the development of jiangsu province has got a covers an area of more than 500 acres and has three teams comprehensive training base, local primary and middle school students, college students to develop the league also hai up. Currently, jiangsu has been formed from a combination of sport and education, the team operation, the league organization to athletes support, training, employment comprehensive system, worth in the nationwide scale; and Shanghai, past their youth training completely go marketization soccer jerseys , but now, with full the luck leverage became apparent, and the Shanghai youth training already have a policy support," combination of sport and education also have certain result." SunZheDong said. Besides, the organization investigation of many media national youth campus football event interview, but also key cities for the Asian games italian league football shirtsduring the Chinese football association green club department of the important work content. SunZheDong said: "the national youth campus football activities for more than a year, but the society from all walks of life to the activities of the significance, the positive role to understand is not very deep, meantime  even there were a part of the negative voice. We organize some media on campus football key cities, is hope we visit the media workers can field has a look, see our activities gained what achievements, China football would ever be using the national youth campus soccer activity dongfeng developed. As a public welfare activity, our this activity may not many 'selling point,' but I still hope to media can pay more attention to our work, and comprehensive, truthfully and objectively reflect to the audiences, let us together for the Chinese football out of the force." (how) Source: China sport 