Tu Barcelona Real Madrid dressing room nude shower celebrating the flavors were teammates teased onl

Tu Barcelona Real Madrid dressing room nude shower celebrating the flavors were teammates teased onlookersAP 5 to 0 victory over Real Madrid, Barcelona team into a carnival, and when coach Pep Guardiola left the locker room, warm atmosphere reached  its peak, screaming, singing, clapping sound, pedal to the sound one after another, endless , the players opened his re-taste jokes, more than one player has suffered under the onlookers in his teammates were teasing shower. But the joke is clearly more than this, there are players, "Stimulation" big hair, wrote on the blackboard in the locker room of the "tomorrow" Marca "will be published 5 to 0 victory over Real Madrid Barcelona's DVD" of the sentence. This is not a bad language, it can be said is a kind of restrained response, over time, some of Barcelona's football and the media were all sorts of smear results, which in Madrid, "Marca" is the vanguard of the Barcelona players hope that through this way to express their dissatisfaction with the team attack.Alves in the Peak and under the thailand soccer jerseys   leadership of Barcelona team are happy to enter the paradise. Barcelona players lack of words, of songs, song inadequate danced. However, in such a busy environment, who is also impossible to escape what pace, and can do anything cause laughter. Iniesta used the celebration of the little free, through their own micro-blog sending a photograph can be seen, he was wearing shorts, doing the victory sign, and his face filled with a happy feeling.Barcelona at the Bernabeu last achieved the victory of 6 to 2, that is not only a historic away victory, but also to Barcelona is basically to ensure the league title, but even that celebration after the game, not as warm this time to. Mourinho, C Luo and the media before the game and allowed Barcelona players feel more intense national team soccer jerseys pleasure, the whole crazy process, up to half an hour. However, not all players could be so crazy to Barcelona to celebrate, because there are a few players after the game had to undergo doping test.Crazy after the Barcelona players have gone through a mixing zone, and players will all be holding a "booty" and some players should have a commemorative shirt to take home, Puyol and even get the game with the ball. Very satisfied with the players one by one, but they also think of Guardiola mind to remind them of the words before: to be humble, to respect others.Guardiola is the last one to leave the club. His wife, Christina accompanied him, and Guardiola, although expression calm, but can also see that he had suffered a strong emotional impact. He looks a little tired, but looked as if aching head, he decided to go straight home, no special celebrations of this historic night with a magical color. (Ivan)