ball mill

This ball mill was made from a design by Lloyd Sponenburgh. It's a very efficient  and each 1 gallon jar can mill 1Kg of black powder in 3 hours. Lloyd has a very good book called "Ball Milling Theory and Practice for the Amateur Pyrotechnicain" and is available form various sources such as American Fireworks News or Skylighter.The ball mill is powered by a standard electric motor. Power is fed from the motor to the roller shaft with a belt.Ball mills are used to grind various chemicals and black powder compositions. Grinding of pyro black powder type compositions can be very dangerous and should only be done with the proper experience and safety precautions.Ball Mill (dry or wet)Usage: Ball mill is the key equipment for grinding after the crushing process, which is widely used in the manufacture industries, such as cement, silicate, new building material, refractory material, fertilizer, ferrous metal, nonferrous metal and glass ceramics and can be used for the dry and wet grinding for all kinds of ores and other grind-able materials.Working principle of ball mill:This machine is a skeleton pattern  with horizontal cylindrical turning gear, drive by outer gear and two hoppers. The material goes to the first hopper after the spiraling by the quill shaft from the feeding equipment. The hopper has ladder sheathing or corrugated sheathing with steel balls inside, which will fall under the effect of centrifugal force by barrel turning to ram hard and grind material. After the kibbling in the first hopper, by monolayer partition panel, the material will enter the second hopper, which has plane scale board with steel ball inside to grind material. The powder material will be discharged from the grid plate to finish the grinding.Structure of : Bal Mill is composed by feeding part, discharging part, turning part and driving part (reducer, small driving gear, electric motor and electric control). The quill shaft adopts cast steel part and the liner is detachable. The turning gearwheel adopts casting hobbing process and the drum is equipped with wear-resistant liner, which has good wear-resistance. The machine is with stable and reliable working condition. Moreover, according to different materials and discharging methods, there are dry ball mills and wet ball mills for choice.