[转]Levi’s® Premieres Traveling Journals at Tedwomen Conference

(12/14/10) Last week, the first ever TEDWomen conference took place in Washington DC and Levi’s®, as one of the main global sponsors, was present in full force.For those of you who aren’t familiar with TED (which stands for Technology Entertainment and Design): it’s a non-profit that organizes a global set of annual conferences devoted to "ideas worth spreading". This year TED decided for the first time to host a conference focusing specifically on women and the question of how are women and girls reshaping the future. Levi’s® asked fifty inspiring young women from across the globe to inscribe hand-crafted journals with how they’re shaping the future, and who’s inspired them to become who they are today. These “Traveling Journals” were unveiled at the TEDWomen conference in Washington D.C. last week. The sponsorship is an important milestone in our strategy to re-engage with women and build awareness around shapewhatstocome.com, our recently launched online community site aimed at enabling young women to share ideas and opinions, and shape their futures by following their dreams and passions. The TEDWomen conference also marked the debut of a specially commissioned film documentary about the “Traveling Journals” from young director Chiara Clemente. The Shape What’s To Come documentary focuses on eight of the journal contributors and highlights how these young women from the U.S., U.K. and Japan are transcending societal expectations, taking non-linear paths to success and making a difference in the world around them. To see the film, click here. The Levi’s® Shape What's to Come team and Chiara ClementeConference attendees were also able to participate in the journaling experience. Levi’s® set up a special “Journaling Room” where attendees could document their own thoughts and experiences of TEDWomen, chronicle what they’re doing to shape their and others’ futures, or simply share some their thoughts on life. If you want to find more about the inspirational women behind the Traveling Journals, you can read them on  The women come from all walks of life but are linked by a common trait: they don’t take no for an answer. With their combination of untenured spirit, optimism and empathy, they’re shaping their futures, and the futures of those around them to make the world a better place. Special surprise guest at TEDWomen -- Hilary Clinton!Meanwhile, back in San Francisco, Levi’s® hosted a TEDx event with live-stream video of the conference taking place in D.C.  A fantastic group of over 100 women attended including local San Francisco media, influencers and Levi’s®/Aol employees. All who attended were thrilled to be a part of this intimate and inspiring event, including San Francisco's first lady - Jennifer Siebel! The cocktail reception gave attendees a chance to mix and mingle and discuss the “talks” from the live-stream and our HP touch screens were on display for guests to learn more about Shape What's To Come and the "Traveling Journals." Attendees were sent away with canvas “Shape What’s to Come” giftbags.