Nike Air Max LeBron 8 South Beach Save: 30%-60% OFF

The shoe sports Nike’s new shade of teal known as “Retro” throughout the smooth leather upper, while black works along the eyelets, tongue and midsole area. Additionally, pink flash is seen accenting throughout, creating a “Miami Vice” look, that could not have been any more fitting. Completing the look, a filiment green translucent 360 Air unit is seen below.The “South Beach” edition of the  8 will be available in limited quantities from Eastbay, November 19th.The Miami Vice inspired nike lebron 8 south beach has taken the sneaker community by storm since images first surfaced online in early October. After a limited Florida release on October 16th, highlighted by a LeBron appearance at House of Hoops Miami, the shoe will finally see a wide release this Friday. To celebrate the occasion, select Footaction locations in New York City, Atlanta and Miami will be hosting midnight launch parties for the highly anticipated sneaker on Thursday. In addition to the opportunity to purchase the "South Beach" 8, attendees will be treated to music, raffles and prizes. Check out the flyer below for addresses and start times.Some would see it as the ushering to a new golden era while others will see it as the ultimate betrayal. Whatever position you take, there is no denying the desirability of this –  (aka the “Pre-Heat” Edition). Inspired by the turbulent 80s, when a television crime drama partly glorified and partly documented the drug-related crimes of the area, South Beach edition symbolized the bright light, fast living lifestyle of the Miami area, something LeBron James will get acquainted to quite quickly. Though slated for a wider release in November, a few lucky residents of Miami-Dade County area will be able to get their hands on a few pair earlier tomorrow, courtesy of Foot Locker. All in preparation for the opening of a new Foot Locker House of Hoops (#15 to be exact) inside of the Dadeland Mall. Coincide with the release and opening, LeBron James himself will make an appearance with some of the local youth for a special in-store event.LeBron James ‘decided’ his way to becoming one of America’s most polarizing athletes, but the impact King James’ arrival in Miami has had on his sneakers is a cut and dry affair. The  miami shoes is one of the dopest colorways yet to be revealed in the latest LeBron signature line. The palette is a bright pastel teal and pink affair you might be tempted to call ‘art deco’, and it doesn’t hurt that beneath all that relatively simple colorblocking lies Flywire-embedded carbon fiber and one of the most advanced Nike B-Ball sneaker designs yet. An impeccable design, the only “Mama, I’m so sorry” here is the fact that you’ll only be able to grab the Pre-Heat LeBron 8s from select Miami retailers starting this Saturday, October 16th. via Nike Basketball.We’ve seen the Nike Air Max Lebron 8 “South Beach,” a.k.a. the “Pre Heat” go through one round of Miami-only releases and a second round of general releases. However, those with smaller feet haven’t had a chance to purchase a pair for themselves… until a few days from now, that is. Beginning next Wednesday, December 1st, select Kids Foot Locker and Foot Locker locations stateside will make the  8 “South Beach” available in Grade School sizes (3.5 to 7). Good luck to those who will be on a hunt during this third round of releases.We Also Recommend : Nike Air Max LeBron 8 Black Metallic Gold Nike Air Max LeBron 8 White Black Red Nike Air Max LeBron 8 Black Blue Nike Air Max LeBron 7 Black Black Nike Air Max LeBron 7 Red White Gold Nike Air Max LeBron 7 White Navy Blue Varsity Red 