Custom Women Nike Dunk High Insa Ethel 2010 On Sale

These special Nike Dunk High were a part of the Kicks N Canvas show in London last month. Graced by the talent of INSA, the shoe revisits the ETHEL aesthetics, a signature of INSA’s illustrative style. Along with the badass design, the shoes are packaged with a custom hangtag, box and garmet bag. This 1-of-1 design is available at SneakerFirst.Last month we posted that British based artist INSA known for his ETHEL  had revisited the style for the Kicks N Canvas sneaker art show in London. INSA also created a mixed media piece of art for the show inline with the ETHEL theme. You can find both the art and the “1 of 1″ Dunk High at Sole Heaven with kicks going for £600 and art piece going for £1500. The funky folks over at INSA satisfy one again our sneaker fetishes as they create their customized Nike Dunks for the up and coming event, the Kick n Canvas show from SoleHeaven. INSA calls the pair ; the women’s dunks are crafted with a pink and gray color way with hints of white. All the side panels are hand painted with the artist’s famous design the “famous heels” pattern. The shoes will be available this Thursday, 8th of April for at the Kick n Canvas event that will be held at The Gallery. The Ethel dunks will come in a customized special box with premium tissue paper and one ladies’ size INSA swoosh tee. Suh-weet! go on sale April 8th but the exhibition runs from April 9th – April 24th. This one of a kind show features custom kicks from some of the best including Jon Burgerman, Antony Lister and Goldie. Last month we posted that British based artist INSA known for his ETHEL custom  had revisited the style for the Kicks N Canvas sneaker art show in London. INSA also created a mixed media piece of art for the show inline with the ETHEL theme.This is the first and only pair of INSA has done in the last 5 years and they are up for grabs. The opportunity is rare and you can invite the sneakers fan of your friend to attend together. Try to connect the all aspects of hip hop culture in art, fashion, music and dance. Witness the miracle which will give us the challenge to 20 different artists to attack a brand new, plain white pair of sneakers with their artwork. People exclaimed great creation in the miraculous.You are looking at ,These special Dunk High¡¯s were a part of the Kicks N Canvas show in London last month. INSA, one of the respected artists participating in Kicks N Canvas created the Dunk Ethel that features a pink upper with a great graphic displaying flowing lines and a fantastical graphic that resembles an exotic garden.We Also Recommend : Nike Dunk High Premium Squirtle Edition Nike Dunk High Premium White Neutral Grey Nike Dunk SB High Pro FLOM - A.K.A. For LOVE or MONEY Nike Dunk SB High Custom Series 02 Pico dos Sonhos Womens Nike Dunk Low Photo Blue White Polka Dots Nike Dunk High Transformer Custom white grey blue 