Comrade Li Changchun and the deeds to see Jiang Hangang Grou

train collector html simple template model   Comrade Li Changchun visited Jiang Hangang and deeds _ Group Members _ Sina News        [Tags: Source]         first report, the report team will have to go to Lanzhou, Chengdu, Jinan, Wuhan, a tour report.  Li noted that China's participation this year is the 20th anniversary of UN peacekeeping operations, Comrade Jiang Hangang good example of China's peacekeeping force, he demonstrated the action of the Chinese peacekeepers mighty and civilized, peace, good teachers image shows the broad mind of the Chinese nation loves peace, showing the Chinese government and people to promote the building of lasting peace and common prosperity and harmony of the world the strong determination to win the African people's sincere admiration and respect for the world peace-loving people. Deeds of Comrade Jiang Hangang concentrated reflection of the excellent quality of the contemporary revolutionary soldier and noble sentiments, a vivid manifestation of the socialist core value system of the rich content, with distinct characteristics of the times and profound educational.  Li stressed that at present, the whole Party and people of all nationalities are in-depth study and implement the Fifth Plenary Session of the Seventeenth Party and the Central Economic Work Conference, full of enthusiasm for the realization of the \. In such a situation, the whole of society to carry out activities to learn from Comrade Jiang Hangang of great significance. Should publicize the great deeds of Comrade Jiang Hangang, learning the country he loved party newspaper, loyalty mission firm belief overall situation in mind, the noble pursuit of glory for the country, hard work and striving for excellence and entrepreneurial spirit, dedication, and selfless dedication of the professional ethics, danger, daring heroic sacrifice, and guide the cadres and masses to unite more closely with Comrade Hu Jintao as general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, thoroughly implement the scientific concept of development, efforts to practice the socialist core value system, confidence , forge ahead, hard work, hard, full realization of the \ the CPC Central Committee, Central Military Commission Vice Chairman Xu attended the meeting.  report by the Central Propaganda Department and the PLA General Political Department jointly. Representatives of central and state cadres, teachers and students on behalf of some colleges and universities,, Beijing and representatives of more than 700 troops to participate in the meeting. At the meeting, Jiang Hangang about the mentality and their process of growth, the report group with the other four members of his own personal experience, from different perspectives about Jiang Hangang advanced deeds and lofty spirit, deeply infected with the audience, the venue bursts of applause sounded from time to time.  first report, the report team will have to go to Lanzhou, Chengdu,, Jinan, Wuhan, a tour report.  Xinhua News Agency, Beijing, December 15 - (xinhua aspirations, Chen Hui) advanced deeds of Comrade Jiang Hangang first report will be held at 15 in Beijing's Great Hall. Before the beginning of the report, Li Changchun, Politburo Standing Committee with Comrade Jiang Hangang and reports to see the panel members, on behalf of Comrade General Secretary Hu Jintao expressed his sincere greetings to Jiang Hangang. He stressed that General Secretary Hu Jintao Jiang Hangang comrades are very concerned about, made important instructions,, requiring the Beijing Military Region leaders to convey the cordial greetings and Comrade Jiang Hangang arrange elaborate treatment. We should further promote loyalty to the mission of Comrade Jiang Hangang,, glory for the country, tenacious, selfless deeds, and strive to create a learning practice the socialist core value system of the good atmosphere. Comrade Jiang Hangang  Corps of Engineers head of the Beijing Military Region. Participating in the 7th batch of Chinese peacekeeping troops for peacekeeping in Liberia during the period, although he was suffering from cancer,, perseverance led troops still in difficult conditions, has accomplished various peacekeeping missions by United Nations officials and the Liberian government and people highly.   相关的主题文章：                