High-speed Beijing-Hong Kong and Macao freezing again last n

train collector html simple template model   High-speed Beijing-Hong Kong and Macao freezing again last night in Northern Section of traffic congestion (Figure) _ _ Sina News        [Tags: Source]         again suffered heavy snowfall in Heilongjiang more ice highway is closed  last night and ice intermittent release of high-speed Beijing-Zhuhai North   (Reporter Yang Jin,, Yan Li Xuan intersection correspondent Guangdong, Guangdong, integrated delivery) due to cold air, the Beijing-Macao Expressway Northern Guangdong Section (hereinafter referred to as the \less than 4 hours of time, the temperature dropped to the 4 ℃ -4 ℃,, 3 ~ 5cm of the road surface ice, traffic severely disrupted. Transportation department to immediately start the anti-ice pass rush, as of 2 pm yesterday, the Beijing-Zhuhai section of the North Expressway all the ice to get through. In addition, the railway line passing through the region not affected.  Guangdong Province Transportation Department, Guangdong Provincial Expressway Group Co., Ltd. and the respective province, once sent a work team to the scene and set up anti-ice-rescue headquarters, the relevant guidance of leading first-line anti-ice sits reopened work. Provincial Expressway Co., Ltd. Zhuhai North Branch immediately launched the emergency plan, about 200 tons of deicing salt spreader. Highway traffic police and road administration in high-altitude section of a bridge to implement the temporary traffic control, toll station in the north of Shaoguan, Ping Shek implementation of toll stations and other north-south traffic diversion. In the traffic control site, the Beijing-Zhuhai Road, officers detained the vehicle in time to release anti-skid chains, and guide drivers installed by the Highways Joint traffic police patrol car guard, led the way, guiding the team slowly left the ice road. A total of more than 1,800 units of vehicles guide.  and (Reporter correspondent Libai Fang Wang He, Xiu-Guang, Tang Haiqiang) 9 pm last night, the Beijing-Zhuhai section of the North Yunyan temperature of minus 3.5 ℃, re-icing roads, North and South are still to take police vehicles with two-way road and divert part of the continuous release of vehicles safeguards.  traffic police department to remind the masses, due to the road by the road is icy cold weather, traffic congestion, traffic police to obey the command, drive carefully, if necessary, clean with highway bypass.  first snow in North reporter advance the \ exercise real change  15 am, the Guangdong Provincial Communications Department, Public Security Bureau jointly Shaoguan municipal government, held in the United Ruyuan bridge a massive response to freezing rain and snow and transportation support for emergency disaster drill. Unexpectedly, after a lapse of half a day, all participated in the training of rescue personnel and large equipment for immediate access to the actual state.  different ice storm in 2008  1 o'clock yesterday morning, anti-ice Command held an emergency consultative meeting, the meeting analyzed the incoming snow and the spring of 2008,, has a large ice storm was different.  first ice time is very fast. 2008 ice storm is the result of slow cooling after about a week there, and then to the ice from the cold weather there is only half a day to the thick ice from the ice formation time or even only 3 hours. Followed by the formation of ice roads for different reasons. 2008 ice storm followed by freezing rain fell on the road, continuous rainfall led to accumulation of layers of ice; and the road surface junction is lowered Snow Grains ice, ice formed.  News newspaper the day before 23 o'clock in Shaoguan, the reporter was awakened by shortness of rebellion ringing, tip lines were then tightened to press immediately nerve - Beijing, Hong Kong and Macao snow along the highway, road is icy, there are a considerable number of vehicles before the line can not be trapped in the ice. After a fight, a reporter caught up with the traffic police rushed out of the Beijing-Zhuhai North Shaoguan police rescue team, as the only representatives of the media, a rare snow to the center of the South advance.  thick ice slowly increasing the role of snow melting agent  starting from the Shaoguan city, all the way wind and rain as unlucky. Beijing-Zhuhai Bridge to the north of the dolomite section is more easily frozen sections, the lower the probability of the bridge south of the ice, but the reporters sitting in the car but found the rain outside the window has been struck by the gentle \into a muffled \Police car suddenly bump up - in a vacant viaduct has been condensed from the jagged ice and snow beast, and here, from the service area south of the bridge a few kilometers away.  to the service area near the bridge, the road has been 1 cm thick layer of ice covered. Line with the car traffic police on duty, the temperature came very suddenly. \ relevant departments to immediately take emergency measures to deicing salt spray. \ Yunyan service area high-speed frozen black spots  service area over the bridge, snow and ice is getting thicker, not after the street from time to time before slipping the various second-line drive vehicles. Suddenly, there was a silence in front of the eye can see the edge of the queue - north of traffic has been severely disrupted. Emergency police immediately decisive exit from the bridge to the highway and Beijing-Hong Kong and Macao Road, parallel to the floor to continue to milk Yunyan advance. milk into the floor just  road unexpectedly, that a picture of the North Cross snowing fog even more surprising. In addition to the ice surface has a thickness of 3 cm, between heaven and earth is filled with a thick fog. Police \Yunyan alpine mountains in the service area is the highest elevation of the Beijing-Zhuhai North, but also the worst years of frozen sections.  reporter from the police in just one jump,, Lingnan rare pink sand-like snow, not to toe once. The entire service area is covered with a thick layer of snow, no one is not white, floating in the air with large shares of large stocks of white gas.  hands together to help officers and soldiers mounted anti-skid chains He Zhongyou  Provincial Communications Department Director, Director of Provincial Public Security Zhao Jianhua and high-speed management of Shaoguan City, the leaders have arrived overnight Yunyan service area, formed a high-profile anti-ice headquarters. Command decision, and sent to multiple machines by the bulldozers of peace formed the \the implementation of the residual ice carpet cleaning. Yesterday 2:30 , rumbling roar of machinery rings in the dolomite section. Snowing fog in the sky, a pedestrian or whether it is leading the staff, are invariably bent over to help vehicle owners to install from the anti-skid chains.  requirements go all out Baochang Tong Xiao Zhiheng  check anti-ice north to Beijing to Zhuhai PAT work  requirements go all out Baochang Tong  Yesterday, by the secretary Wang Yang, Governor Huang Huahua commission,, Provincial Committee and Provincial Vice Governor Lin Ying Xiao Zhiheng rate Deputy Secretary General and provincial departments and the leadership of Shaoguan City, to the Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway North Check the anti-ice work. Xiao Zhiheng inspected the Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway north access road de-icing and conditions in the emergency command center Yunyan snowstorms site office will be held.  Xiao Zhiheng said that the provincial government attach great importance to the Beijing-Zhuhai North traffic conditions, secretary Wang Yang, Governor Huang Huahua and Liang hair, Lee Yung-kan, Tong Xing and other provincial leaders instructions immediately. Xiao Zhiheng that fight through the snow disaster in 2008, the province out of a tried and tested exercise emergency response team, summed up a more mature experience in emergency response. The face of this winter's first snow disaster, effective and timely response to the relevant departments. On behalf of Secretary Wang Yang, Governor Huang Huahua on the fighting in the first-line anti-ice pass rush all the staff to express my heartfelt thanks and sincere solicitude. He pointed out that the abnormal climate this year, the relevant units should make full preparations for disaster Kang Da, go all out to ensure smooth flow. (Character letter, Guangdong make comprehensive)  \ 2008 ice disaster in ten days when the blocked Li Yan  truck driver and his earning power tool - are streaming in a wind kcal Ruyuan county. Stamp to stamp the truck to go before reporters, he complained about his bad experience. \\But the reporter was informed yesterday evening, the Beijing-Zhuhai road north to the north all reopened, Li Yan power has been the most difficult place to drive through the Beijing-Zhuhai section of the North dolomite, \ > Related reports: Jiangxi High-speed ice wine  more than three ultra-high-voltage current accident ice Beijing-Tianjin and Beijing-Shanghai high-speed  road ice in some areas because of Tianjin, close  again suffered heavy snowfall in Heilongjiang more ice highway is closed  text / Chart reporter Pu Yu, Wang Guangyong, Zhang Xuebin, Chen Feng  correspondent Chen L, Cai Mingqing addition to signature outside   相关的主题文章：                