chagrin of most grass Lin still has not changed

                                         chagrin of most grass Lin still has not changedShing from today she is the father of our family did not finish San Cheng has been turned back into the house he knew that his father adopted a child that is about as big as a partner for him, but he did not need. Grass Lin watery eyes after looking at the innocent man is his father's sweet voice saying: Dad did not like the grass is not his brother Lin? Lin men squatting touch the head of the grass loving smile: Brother will not only have fun for a while things do not enough. After Lin grass here is to remember your home take care of slightly older brother know? Men do this and grass Lin said. Members from a Baijia Cheng day to now have seven years to the White House less than three months because of her new father died in traffic accidents. She remembers clearly her father's funeral only 10 years old did not leave the holy Cheng had a tear over his strong age children. Shing later to take care of the aunt, how are you? Elegant funeral of a woman, choking back tears. He and I do not need to live on their own good. Cheng San-year-old can not resist the tone with the courage,, while just a child but does not belong to this age with the maturity of the owner. A full life with more than a decade the chagrin of most grass Lin still has not changed things. Obviously is a girl but has been clarified that a male saint of her enrollment card, the account is written on both the male. Although the same roof may go without too much exposure to the students of St Cheng touch him more points than her. And he wanted to clear but has had no opportunity to helpless sigh. Do not trance night patrol of the school is very important! And grass to go with the boys Lin alert said. I'm sorry. Lin, scratched his hair back to its grass Piaoyuan serious thoughts continue to patrol. Although not itself enter the security team will be more contact but that San Cheng. Girls love the best she could not find the object in addition to San Cheng else. Needless to say, almost in Jincheng appearance should not find even more handsome than his head is also very clever people who do not read are able to take full tuition scholarship to take the first free as his brother in his glory shining sometimes be a blessing and a curse. And in her heart that he had not just his own brother, but unfortunately she does not need his brother around Why to guard? Boy asked suddenly. Have to admit that they really go together with the slight girl named Li is really beautiful mature elegance beautiful shoulder-length curly hair,, pleasant smile,, there are small but deep facial features she just felt at the dinner table The Chi Yu Sato strange that he was not together with the girls do not like it? Now anxious wrapped around she is not boy really is a kind of will only be sex blind eyes only. The thought here, stand up and patted her tears ran Mama she do not see that they do not like sweet is not to Why every time wrestling splash Zuo Yu Ji could hear the children left behind after movement quickly ran Li Wei did not think she really is the voice of wrestling .... Damn fool every time he saw her will be a really Bensi Ji Yu Zuo funny to help her find her up at night crying idiot can not see not at all here know Ah why he should do just as concerned about her aunt said that as she is the adopted daughter of the house when she was his only sister? Asa So you are here! Li Wei generous smile watching them really are brother and sister Wife you two oh I pushed him away .. I cried and ran away, his superior said cocoa only she can call him ... he really Asa's now just as her sister? Why does she have to cry She recently made her own really good cry, she really hate this How the discipline can feather your child worry about chasing up the rank and file Be crowded out of the Li micro silly they looked at this scene she understood that simple fact, more than brother and sister now! Woman's intuition told her that her priority would be a threat, but a girl, but as long as she wanted no one Li Wei that he can take away from her after showing her a confident smile was idle followed. How can a child catch you in the end he only cried for a long time the advantages of cocoa pear pull rain swollen eyes looked like she was still with the walnuts slightly sad that he choked her tightly in my arms Did not you say you are on the other girls are not interested? That you told her so why do not accept the rather intimate impulses of her adopted children do not always know what words to say You mean you are so sad that I did not accept the child adopted rather incredible that he released her at her I just want you to go on to accept rather how to adopt children is acceptable to you to hit the door she rushed her into the bang bang the angry rank and file across the door Ji Yu Hand abruptly crashed into the wall to go down the stairs he drove to a PUB crazy filling a bottle with another bottle of wine ... I'm happy as long as you Lying completely did not expect the advantages of cocoa own words will record what kind of combat Yu Zuo rummaging how she could not sleep pillow by her poor foot jump under the bed She quickly jumped down from the run to the mirror next to the damn how that Li Wei's temperament is simply so good, especially tall people Penbi Xue did not meet her before long she thought I was beautiful enough but now they simply look at Hu Mei with her beauty that does not take the shelves look as if there is an childish off the feeling and then look up and down his body as big and she does a place with the big and small areas of the small woman in particular, wow how to eat what is brought up as good as everyone is obviously a peer how could an underground heaven it? Will the big men like women who Hu Mei? Ji Yu Zuo would like them?        