command to look at whether cold

                                                           command to look at whether cold Park in the fall of the side not at all clear that the two-color two people around so ugly to look at him ~ ~ ~ hey ~ ~ it really does not know how to fend for themselves how the wind blows autumn Bai Qing. The Bai Jia Qing Chill autumn just to see the wolf-like outside the bedroom that also saw the emperor looked at Jinger dementia. My heart cried out: days if I do not put things Jinger had her door in trouble Yan saw the cold distance of their master and some on the right hand Baoquan Road to the sound of An Jia Chill: Master This is soon back to all those present to the cold of the soul Jinger meet Emperor Yan's voice is also seen with three of them rose up quickly to the front of the emperor. Emperor Ji Xiangjing children bowed to the emperor invited a security. Jinger do not have to play more ceremony Treat went straight up to the emperor hastily propped Jinger Jia Chill saw this action to block almost went up in front of the Jinger; can not wait for him to do so has taken a step backward not Jinger Let the emperor met her. This retreat can be a bit unhappy with the Emperor kicking up clouds of what not to say ~ ~ ~ Jia Chill looked up and raised his mouth and heart is very happy ~ ~ ~ atmosphere suddenly stiff down. To resolve this front facing stiff cold atmosphere Jinger strict, cold silver, rain, said: Yan children Silver Rain is quick to the emperor asked the children Strictly to the emperor asked the cold cold rain of silver to the emperor asked the chorus to the emperor asked the three invited Ann. All three helped them to see the emperor to marry Mistress is not happy for my heart was very unhappy because their master chef like the presence of the emperor Jinger how come the wife of Rotary courtiers are justified; their hearts are naturally not happy so just That gentle face suddenly became cold. En Jinger they? Emperor against Jinger asked. They are the favorite of the emperor Huangdi's Disciples Before Jinger answer the question Fei Yu Qing emperor to have answered: the Qing emperor of children you see it? Clear how children have anyone notice? I want to give children a surprise Qing Qing children did not expect so soon to know the Emperor said as he hand around the waist with Fei Yu Qing looked Jinger eyes still seemed inclined to see Jinger in response to ~ ~ ~ do not look better naturally looked disappointed; saw Jinger smile especially sweet side in the freezing cold with Jia Jia Jia Chill Chill speak and also totally did not watch Yu Fei Fei Yu Qing Qing one that also saw the eyes of now only the freezing cold Jia Ying Jiao Jing heart also is not too happy ~ ~ ~ Autumn Park stood just clear the eyes from left Jinger who get no Jia Chill atmosphere. Even the woman staring at me impatient to see him live. Strict Mistress children to accompany you into the rest the Emperor is the term CHINFIE Goddess. The prime minister is also the Goddess of you look at the Qing Fei accompanied by Jia Chill, do not come up with such an excuse not to Jinger to them. Is the master of cold Yan replied. Spoke with the three just like Jinger go in the direction to the Villas. They also see the cold strict teacher in the eyes of their heart to understand the anger about the meaning ~ ~ ~ The emperor had wanted to keep Jinger's but he did not know what kind of excuse to find wines had watched Jinger leave the back of the heart ~ ~ ~ Nature Park unwilling to fall was also clear that not only reconciled to it I think he Xie Xiao mouth has represented everything. Let me persuade the emperor seems Big Brother is supposed to get this cold Jiao Jing Ying Qing Yu Fei is true that the Emperor's eyes to see Jinger already know everything ~ ~ ~ Qing Fei Hui Gong emperor empress are really good fortune to pick the prime minister queen suddenly the cold side of the open road; he angered the opening Qing Yu Fei also angered the emperor eyed stare; haha of course, is the most fun people to help him chill in JIA how to solve problems will be unhappy? Although the man was dead rat, but run into a blind cat is nothing more than words to help him; Jia Chill know the emperor suddenly came back to Fei Yu Qing is not so simple and just let him no trouble until Jinger married people in your family is the best choice ~ ~ ~ The emperor only to see me just say I've been told my back to Emperor Prince Big Brother House is married to the cold waiting for him to take care good care of your family's chores in front of Yu Fei clear the prime minister said that in fact the face has been severely heart the curse. Huang Di was a bit careless so I let this child back to the Qing emperor in his haste to help Fei Yu Qing go along with helping. He was afraid to take back to the Qing Yu Fei Side. Chen Di thanked the Emperor, Empress Jia Ice freezing cold look of the road. Princes have really good luck to get married the emperor not only come forward to help out with the empress did not forget to admire the prime minister is really saying is false finding fault. It is infinite royal mighty emperor, empress benevolence short words of this sentence is not superfluous to the prime minister blocking back; this silence the prime minister suddenly Pass. Ha ha ha ~ ~ ~ Well done ~ ~ Well, I told the prime minister Huangdi you go back you do not wait on pulling a homemade emperor deliberately emphasized the word wait. Chen mind no matter how reluctantly retire did not dare say anything, after all, the tone of the emperor he could understand; only this old fox is still surprised that he has been pressing to prevent the emperor from the emperor alone had the freezing cold with JIA has been taboo with the emperor Jia Chill alone, after all, still a little afraid of him the emperor's prime minister; available today are not shy about how little does he have thought to deal with me? No I have pre-emptive. Side edge of thinking about the prime minister to the palace with his beloved disciples walked outside. Well, go on I Ching children and I talk to you first look at the prime minister to discuss Huangdi Emperor they had gone against the Qing Yu Fei said. Fei Yu Qing is very obedient to go on without a word. Huangdi how do you see the prime minister? So one day we sing you sure this old fox tail to reveal his coming? A bit of confidence in the emperor asked the chill in JIA. Huang Xiong you did not see when he left,, there was not so hard you look? He must think of ways to deal with him so you would think pre-emptive Jia Chill very positive reply. The two of them had to do to this on purpose to see the prime minister seems that the prime minister really the heart of the rebellion. Line that we will go play with them; but afraid they affect you and Jinger marriage. The emperor was a little guilty about her; had his back to the Qing Yu Fei is also arranged to allow the old fox that he sub-freezing cold again with Yu Fei Jia Qing Jia Chill out of trouble in the marriage; this does not make clear that Yu Fei, the more trouble because she was their the more successful programs; emperor attached great importance that was very Jinger Jinger; but he also valued his fear of the Huang Di Huang Di that he did not do on the emperor ~ ~ ~ After all, this abdication of the throne, Prince Chill Jia him when the And he also sealed his accession to the throne of a prince that Huangdi. Huang Xiong also told I'm going to do this that I believe Jinger Jinger; and we also hope Jinger in time to help us play a good show it's said Jia Chill sneer. Achievements to Jinger know, but we must ensure the safety of Jinger. Emperor Jia Chill this is now completely believe him. Huh? Is not that Shang Ziying it? Chi-volt water quietly in Lianer ear said. Lianer looked down her voice really is it! Prince's bodyguard but he is not it? Not with how it came in the Prince's side here? With questions Lianer Ying went to the child. Lianer saw the girl child Ying Lian Er. How do you come here? The Prince is not around in it? Lianer mystery Ying thought the child looked at the top you must be a crime of dereliction of duty! From that day to chat at the lake after they see the Son Ying Lianer not shy like before occasionally open to open a small joke. He is a Shangzai Ying Xiao Shunzi around the opening but was soon stopped by a sub-Ying to. Xiao Shunzi main fact originally intended to be a child but was turned back only to find himself being wronged the child Ying almost missed something days! Is not that that fairy painting it? Is she is Lianer! I am the orders of the Prince's command to look at whether cold Shufei empress and Crown Princess to the meal. Sub-Ying had an idea to find a pretext to appear here. This! Trouble still go back and tell the guards that Prince and Crown Princess today Shufei Goddess Serenity in our house with a dinner out! One is the official Lianer rules have become even talk much. Yet when you go back guards do not forget to tell the Prince that he married a tigress it! This outburst the other three water instantly Chi petrochemical Face minds. Days! So how can this girl talk! Lianer helpless child Ying would like to see the expression of some people to look deep fear of the small side is pale eunuch. Oh do not listen to this girl that sub-Ying Nonsense Lianer Crown Princess at this time if it got him in trouble want to go back and re-ordered the resumption of life at once to comfort him, Prince. Can be sub-Ying curse Enji now she is in trouble a look back to how to dispose of her! Well! You do not want to go back and re-ordered it? Do not delay the time it! Lianer water immediately Dengxiang Chi Chi to shut up is also a reminder of the water sub-ying to get out. Surprisingly, there is no convergence of water and went Chi guards you still do not know today how she bullied Ms Miss my home is a good temper, but I can not tolerate people bully us, Miss,! Looked at his face more and more complex sub-Ying Lian Er Zhi roared toward the water how can you easily listen to what they say to outsiders! Tell me nothing! Obstruction despite Lianer child Ying Chi went to the water and subsequently turned to go back to the Prince Xiao Shunzi that there will soon re-live! Listen to Chicago since the Crown Princess of water into the rear of the things Serenity told his son lay it face Ying accumulate more and more anger and pity. She was too much! After listening to the water sub-Ying Chi, then the usual calm and did not roar out loud. Does not she! Chi also go along with the water. Lianer at this time to listen to their thoughts, then how can there be only one mind just immersed in the sub-expression of Ying. Both did not respond to see Lianer quiet down is estimated that by the aggrieved Lianer Lianer sad heart to the next girl if nothing could get some fresh air with you? Finally heard the long-awaited invitation, but in this case it is not too excited to feel faint smile Lianer just right! Again at the familiar feelings and past Purple Cloud Lake is completely different. Every time I come here with an excuse for all Lianer With disturbed feelings from either the sub-sub-Ying Ying and this time it is at this time he invited her to come with their own side as real. Lianer girl looked at sub-Ying hesitantly Lianer quickly find topics yet to break the awkward guards do not mind if I call it good Lianer Lianer idle zoning girl cried out! Ying heard this child's mouth does not rise in a graceful curve of good! It is better to obey the next respectful,! But if so it would also call my son Lianer Ying now! Good! Sub-Ying just want to say? Wish me straight! Lianer to the sub-Ying made a slight salute the action continued. No sub-Ying really sorry to utter these words will be stopped. They sat together on the lake that the lake looked round the moon's reflection Lianer look back to the child unconscious child found Ying Ying is also a look at her heart suddenly missed a beat flurry under the head to stare at once Lake of the Moon. So how can I trust? Ying said the tone of faint sub-mixed with a trace of excitement. Only from the first time I saw your heart will have the feeling you are worthy of my trust. Finally buried in his heart the words of the long out Lianer suddenly felt a lot easier. Two people felt the air around some of stagnation do not know how to break this situation. Had to lie down to watch the stars. After a long time in fact I first met you would think you different. There is a want to protect your impulses! Sub-Ying turned slowly, looked down at the Lianer Mouzhong reveals serious. At this time Lianer never felt a feeling in my heart wells up so good but let their fear of Jiaoren in too deep. Just then a bird flew from the sky suddenly wake up to find her Lianer and sub-Ying present position is too ambiguous and no way to get up the sub-Ying is a bit Lianer we just feel like they are talking all the time to speak too hot cheeks become smooth up thinking it really is evil love! The dead had lost! Ying seems to have found his son's wrong immediately got up and I'm sorry I did not mean it! He hastened to explain the kind of looked at his face in embarrassment Lianer Puchi out a laugh. Lianer happy to see sub-Ying also emerged in the mouth to the beautiful arc of his handsome appearance even more so Lianer revel in them.  