cloud do you really think that

                                                        cloud do you really think thatSu Xiaoan you still a student? Can have half a semester for a semester is not. Nine, all of them are only a dozen of the main points that are out of clutter. Ah ~ the teacher a long sigh, can not quite say that? The original must rest. The thought of micro smiled. A girl in the end you have your shame? Get out! Gee! This is my gas would be less because of the live several years longer for the education I really made a significant contribution. Yes. The teacher went out of arrogance, I stretch out of the office. Boring! Vivian dear good bored in class one. Huh? This is the youngest child stuff? "Parents," the three characters printed into the eyes. Hung his head and forced Yao Xiachun. Not have to pretend to care about it? Why is there still hurts? Such a thing about it is perhaps a lifetime of stigma never forget. Getting used to be good. Hey! Why play a few ants squatting. Bu Zhiyu only for a moment on the stupid bar. Before you go to your stupid. Little Vivi is good here we went to paint too boring. I just almost got there Godzilla Godzilla to swallow. No! I want to class the day you are to the black gone forever. How could you seventeen years old this year and as necessary to test a child! You break that results are mixed with less than a diploma. After you how to do? Rely on to feed you? Vivian Yi is small, he told sternly. Gee. Vivian more and more like a little Godzilla. Must have been infected but fortunately I did not go to school. Otherwise, as I will, and little Vivi. Costume contest results are in! A large group of girls. Passed me while discussing the matter. We went to promising small Vivian bad. Do you remember last time I participated. You said this is a lie refused to go. Expect me to award a. Hee hee! Winners to be recommended for admission to the French school. Godzilla would not have to listen to a wordy,! Go with me to see! I'm not going to class soon. Bye. Vivian's face looks like a small white a bit cold in the. Looked up and saw sunshine! Must be wrong. I want to see the results of the competition. Pidianpidian walk to the school lobby. Yeah I saw that I work out. First eh. The above is not how the name is not small Vivian wrong. Not wrong! Uncle still hard handling guard winning. Crazy is not posted wrong? The name is not affixed to Uncle wrong? Posted wrong? Wait for me to call to ask about, oh. Good. Little sister is not wrong. You made a mistake, right? I may be wrong. You have a new message. This time the phone rings. Broken ring I gave you sooner or later changed. Press the Read key to his words jumped out. To rooftop. Dimension I was asked to roof doing? Not hurry to class? Also a small roof suddenly told me to go Vivian really sick. That's good I want to ask her how this is going. More recently we seem strangely changed. Especially small Vivian neurotic do not know why! I kept thinking unconsciously to go. Why do you call me Little Vivi? You do not want to ask me how the same thing? What is? Costume contest would you really install it. No wonder you people will be deceived. Little Vivi hint of sneer. Vivian how small you end up? I tell you that the design is for you. But my name is participating in the tournament. I secretly changed the picture that help you get the time. Why? Vivian sent me a few months ago a small painting is good. Not go alone. Vivian Lo dear Do you best. Well, well, give them to me We are all orphans. But we all enjoy from small to large as we do not adopt me home along with the Soviet Union to learn to listen to their words carefully. And every day you do nothing around to cause trouble. Why are their eyes never just you. Haha they finally die you know I broke the car. But the legacy they gave you all I do? I have nothing! Why do they love you I do not you? At school we say you are school beauty and I was an ugly duckling and why? Not fair! Not fair! We are not the best friend? What is the best friend? You know this is my little Vivi it? Then you die! Vivian easily push begins with a small roof fall. Slowly close your eyes. I carried my clothes stood in the gate looked like gates 'yan Cloud City' three characters blankly down pedestrians have thought something strange eyes were cast by my arms look like cute clothes staring back! Although I am now wearing a veil, but ultimately, those amazing eyes or clothing can be more like the more hard to stare a little in my heart calling the sentence: like clothes! To do so is immoral! Like the original clothes called yan Cloud City! Yeah I never noticed before,! Finish my lips twitch with chic clothes to leave the city into a pedestrian to fall (Spirit: Yeah? How are upside down? Of: Do you think such a long time to think about this? Ling: Yes! Of: fainted ...... gorgeous!) Have you heard yet? Second Prince this morning with hundreds of thousands of troops into the Imperial City it! Such a large movement who do not know,! After tonight, it seems that the second prince of the emperor! Alas! We are also coming to an end a good day for the people of these two cell perverse pleasure-seeking prince, violent inflammatory state that if there is such an emperor from the subjugation of the day not be far behind Prince wanted to come today as young and promising good kind! Walking on the street everywhere talking about two things I can not help Prince rebellion brought back the original of these two princes in the mouth so people can be considered unpopular to do things my dad Hades if you do know I must not get angry! Evening the palace hall Fu Huang promised to his younger brother as you request it! This will only sacrifice I am just a man! Murong cloud suddenly looked at his old like the Fu Huang hematocrit sad heart of their resentment growing more and more No Zhenbu make that Buxiao Zi Yan country fall into the hands of the cloud do you really think that by now you only sacrifice one person on the line yet? Get started leaning on the old emperor sitting in the sun alone Throne of his old lot of trouble! If not, he could not ask to see through his second son, the plot is not that the no one knows if you really let him host the second son of the emperor after the removal when it is indispensable inflammation alien is a bloody country must Er Chen Fu Huang protect you from security has been long-lost when talking Mu easy flash of blue in their eyes murderous I like clothes lying on the roof of the hall listening to the dialogue which the number of stars in the sky to enjoy the night breeze pleasant touch of fire suddenly came into view from far and near the fire more and more stop and go all the way through all the way killing a dozen people stood in neat military entrance hall is a prospect of a solution to take the lead among the people and one-third of similar Murong brothers, men wearing robes just a bit more sinister in his face Well I hate small to large This person has not put out when the emperor put the robe Er Chen Fu Huang kindly invited! Second, toward the hall, where Prince handed over the hypocrisy of a medium in which the sound is particularly awkward moment of silence this man is too strong this time also had to think of a show to do a full set of ...     