rehearse the school song students perceived

                                                  rehearse the school song students perceivedRoad non-hosts to a servant by a phone call Alvin Butler then told a few people over. There are so many things to open the Lincoln extended over a minute! Servants face was slightly behind the young master of the intimate smile thanks! Yes Master! San Yu Tower office building Alvin executives face was a look of surprise appears to be underestimated Lolo little old lady with a shopping frenzy for the fine quality. Fortunately, the Road Home money on something that does not care or she would have been sent away. Brother, good clothes here, come here! Lolo and fly to another product area Pinmingdexiang non-waving fear of falling behind the way he did not see it. Well wait a minute! Road non-order a bit behind the collar looked helpless servant ran to the Lolo. Lolo picked up a dress pattern blueberry lollipop lollipop blueberries excited I finally found you! Road non to realize that Lolo had always been looking for their own clothes to help him buy clothes just by the way of. Lolo like to buy it Brother, wait a minute! Aunt blueberry lollipop pattern here all the clothes I have to. Lolo interpolation circuit, then turned around and naive non-looking clerk. Clerk for a moment, a good sister, oh wait a minute! Can be seen buying clothes to buy clothes never seen. Road Lolo would not have thought to buy their own clothes may be wrapped around did not think she should own all of the blueberries whole shop clothes patterns Bang Bang all bought it. Although a little dismissive of this family such a big difference, but a short time so that he could not accept. Then look at dozens of sets of clothes and a full dress though not as elegant but work fine some blueberry lollipop pattern is inlaid with precious jewels of exquisite blue, each one is top international renowned artists, and jewelry setters to design some of them are limited edition as the most appropriate dress of the nobility. Tan Lolo vision in mind it is good. Shop assistant looked at the way things not to mention the maid behind the children is to dress you somehow? I saw two servants out of breath and tired hands simply can not make mention of things. Road non-no alternative but to shake the nod here for our first Alvin housekeeper who sent it! Brother you look at these hats look good! Lolo has inadvertently went to box cap counters. It came good! I would not buy her enough of the original,! This kind of situation in the world that is a rewarding experience. Lolo looked at the results tonight, satisfied smile revealing the hand pulling the road at the junction and other non-Alvin sent to the car. Feifei! To give aunt hug! No other way of a non-turned arms of middle-aged women have picked him. Front of the woman perfume face powder Sauvignon heavy face mask of the original disclosure falls on the shoulders hair is dressed in clothes she the slightest show of such persons is typical when the century trend. A aunt let go of my breath. This is not the most annoying way every time I see his aunt who is like a hunger to see the bread as a child, but he has not kept his aunt as a child. Sorry! Feifei,! Aunt aunt did not mean to see you so happy so slowly down the road of non-aunt was like the children do something wrong, like the innocent face. I am no longer young aunt they must not hold me or else I do not talk after the Hello! Do not head to the side of the road do not inadvertently go to aunt. To deal with such people is of no use to Yiroukegang red fruit fruit only intimidated by the threat to her. Feifei aunt Do not do wrong after the change is not enough? Hey this is the way director of the Stem daughter? That die of non-squatting LO aunt does not live to cry! Father dead mother did not die with that fortunately did not cry out or else can be a profound misunderstanding of the. Road course, can not stand this non-begging only forgave her. See opportunities to succeed are the topic of conversation aunt who moved to Lolo. Hello I am a Road Board aunt's daughter, My name is Lolo dry! Lolo was staged in front of the edge of death shock over a long time to recover mental state. Lolo! Dong polite good taste and lovely way! Aunt pulled a little face rub to get pulled Lolo effort by kneading and Lolo have to spend a lovely unusual facial expression like the other people looked on. ! ! ! You're too hard now! Zhang could not go too far so that he can no longer condone a good day or we never had! Oh,, why do you come to me how do you know that I will fight with you? From the first moment I see you I see that you are absolutely not an ordinary person you will be doing this! My boyfriend is really good standard for me you know so much about alone, but also to the interests of the school I do! ! Tonight, we notice a good private school for each student after the student conference tomorrow together a vigorous uprising of students! ! Course the next day passed quickly flashed to the General Assembly in the afternoon when the students of the school's regular Ching Chui today particularly in the wind and rain but that is not surrounded by trees down in the middle of the students also received the long pine infection has become the playground packed up and high-spirited students and all teachers often hear but quiet pine branches and leaves of the jitter. All student members are sitting on the stage sitting in the middle of Xiayi Xuan Xu Chong-night sitting on the left I sat on the right. Chong Xu spoke first night: we are students of the General Assembly today, only one principal purpose of the request is only fired Zhang Song Zhang Song Zhang teaching level is not high teacher usually wear no indecent language is not like the teachers are more accepting bribes had no talent to students get to school. Today, I got expelled from school students to Song Zhang proposed the recognition of students also do justice to the teacher! ! Teachers have not heard this I lost no time pressure of cross God's with all the students shouted: Zhang fired! ! Zhang fired! ! No voice resounded through the sky than the peasant uprising that year less! ! Scream at the same time the princess has invited reporters from TV stations to record under this scenario even if it has big ability Zhang Song can not restore it! Xiao Ke Hou Momo looked at the teaching building of the wall after she seems to be careful! Local stations to broadcast in the afternoon the student uprising of the picture and condemned this kind of adverse social Zhang Song not have to say was fired the next day the uprising to a successful victory! ! One afternoon the teacher to announce the way: another eight days of the school to commemorate the celebration of 139 years of our class and other classes should not look at our class sing the school song contest is on the experimental class to a group of blue-blue-Fei Lin Fei Lin listen to a girl that you have the absolute musical anthem that the choir up to you to be responsible for the What is the sense of absolute music absolute sense of music? Xuan Yuan Qi wind really know anything about music. Absolute sense of music is not easily look up a note will be able to say this is the first few notes that a high profile. 30% of the general playing the piano will have eight blue-Fei Lin, but the piano too! Students to stay after school to rehearse the school song students perceived to stand in a row and I did not see the windows facing the water just finished singing the school was able to say, but everyone's voice characteristics and to each person to develop a viable plan for this sing playing the piano during the period there has always been my blue-Fei Lin has not held because the class who can match my piano it. November 15 is the anniversary day of the Blue Fei Lin trained with only eight days, the team boarded the next station stop thin drizzle drizzle like playing softly in the face of each student's gentle, pleasant . Mist filled the air like a fairy tale just like falling silent dim cherry petals mixed with the fragrance of the soil and add more copies of mystery. Finally, the test ban with strong powerful voice and took first place with a magnetic. After the students understand these things to my ability to Blue Fei Lin and Chong after a night unanimously approved the same as student body president Xu. One night a few days later broadcast on TV screen is a killed a middle-aged man I look closely, not shocked that this is not Xiayi Xuan's father do! !     