ordinary very ordinary girl

                                                       ordinary very ordinary girl        Is not it? ! Cold breath that you should be in Iraq five cups!!! Do you mean you want to break me, right? ! ! Zheng Yunan cold stare Iraq, including Iraq,, the five cups of tea cold front. Not what you said to ask me for it! This cup I drink five cups of it to monitor a glass cup to a cup to Meng Qi Xiaoyun last cup - give Jing Wen Drink! Iran laughs at cold Zheng Yunan. Hey! Yi Han! I ask you this, but ah! You do not even give me a cup! You also do not take me for a friend? ! She angrily waved a waiter! A cup of lavender tea! Yi Han! You are here drink milk tea? How you have not seen before? Blue Shining handsome smile came to Zheng Yunan eyes constantly risking heart-shaped bubble of pink cheeks flushed crimson. You have to drink milk tea monitor? The shop is open yet. Shang Feng pity laughs his arm resting on the shoulders of the Blue Shining. Bother you ......' Prince '? ! Zheng Yunan in shock at his bother did not think the legendary prince finally let her see it! It is not so strange four princes stand before you do. Yu Nan Can you cough that will not be so animal in nature? Iraq Lara Zheng Yunan's clothes in cold. Oh that ... We're moving! She held the hand of Iran in cold dash for the door. Hey! My tea! Iraq reluctantly to the table cold five cups of tea and looking at the ~ ~ You have not check out the two ladies a total of ...... No, I suppose I requested it! Blue Shining smile. No monitor only 30 dollars Well ~ I had enough money. Yi Han said as he pulled out a pink purse out of thirty dollars to the dismay of the flight attendant ...... Zheng Yunan! ! Cold weather is nice today, Iraqi Hey Yo ~ ~ ~ ~ the air is fresh and it Hey! Do not change the subject! Iraqi cold is your own so I have to pay the ...... Oh do not be angry ~ ~ another day I'll call you okay? Zheng Yunan carefully laugh. I was so anxious that you do it? ! Now the summer is good! You people are really interesting to stay in the house is not cool the sun came out so dark I do not want you want! I was afraid of losing face in front of the four princes Well you said I kind of cell it is neither gentle Taitailielie type is not indifferent type of sun-type'd share a little bit of edge but no! This is not the type they like! ,! ! ! ! ! Woo ~ ~ I want to change! I need to be indifferent! ! ! ! ! ! Yi Han! Since then you have to help me become indifferent! What are you doing to become indifferent to what I think to keep the best. Iraqi cold I like you so cute so talented I'm just a very ordinary very ordinary girl, but the hearts of every girl has a princess is not a dream? Prince Charming like a princess want to be loved, and protected in order to gain their attention will change my cell! Well really admire you! Well I can help you but if you change fails I do not care,! Ok! Just as long as you agree! So now we go? Uh ...... or else go back! You are not afraid of losing face in front of them now? Who am I? Zheng Yunan! ! If fear of losing face I will not stay out here! Go! I ask you to drink milk tea! You forget it! I've still got five cups do not get it! Cheng Si drink I think you got it? ! One bright afternoon a fat girl suddenly rushed into the face of the experimental class were also clearly played just keep wounds Oh Xiao Ke was not just been learned over the girl? ! Really pathetic! Behind came the gentle murmur. Xu Chong-night seems to know this girl is secretly to tell him the day before the girls thing and Xiao Ke Xu also like to worship the night to tell him anyone who must escape the clutches of Xiao Ke. At this point I do have night and Chong Xiao Ke Xu also had to take action against Xiao Ke's behavior is the school of public anger. Xu Chong night I had a view of truth as to go that step. Xu Chong-night whispering. Too much noise last time we uprising ended the teacher has explicitly engaged in large-scale student activities and then we had split up or we agree with Xiao Ke dismissed a petition signed by more than half the students if all agree that even if teachers are unable to return to days ! I think side to side Xu Chong-night advice. Good for such a set now! Xu Chong-night look like confidence. Looked out the window from the street is always so busy but today is not the same in the two student council in the eyes of everyone to fight for their own Xiao Ke and heard at this time the news has inadvertently exposed the evil mouth smile It seems not the original so successful and many students are afraid to sign this petition thing obviously is afraid of retaliation after seems Xiao Xiao Ke Ke students in their fight to the defense before the needle. Students you reconsider if you want to really be fired Xiao Ke who will misbehave in school, not to mention revenge hey you the students think about it you do not go again! Xu and Chong night even though I was only half of the carrot and stick are not afraid of death of the students signed it. I seem to have no more tolerance toward Xu Sung turned a great night's supercilious. Now things are for you the sky how do you say we can! I am completely outraged. Hey you do not get too pessimistic easy. Chong Xu said the night ride on my shoulders shoulders. I am not angry eyes can be a resolute mind seemed to have been walking toward the President's Office. I went to the lounge and principals to come up with a petition to the president, said: This is the president of the views of the students want schools to be able to give her a worthy Xiao Ke study here! Cheng said the teacher also came in: Blue Fei Lin is right on the heads you see the petition, although only half of signed and that the other half is met Xiao Ke of the threat. Said petition handed to the principal. I am a little surprised Cheng Cheng teacher teachers will know how this matter! Not surprisingly concerned about students is the teacher's responsibility to do. Cheng Tsung teacher must have heard the report of Xu night. Lounge gradually quiet down some of the students do not want to Zhanre non-simply choose to avoid the rest of my room now, Chong Xu night, principals, teachers, and Xiao Cheng Ke. The next battle will be a tit for tat! The smell of gunpowder filled the air at this time nobody spoke Suddenly the door was heard a sound of footsteps is the Vice President! ! This can be bad not seen the petition signatures, Vice President General Xiao Ke is to secure the people! Xiao Ke had been the outcome will be left behind. Xiao Ke evil smile that I took courage, because, because I never played the Blue Fei Lin undefeated! I have chosen to reverse the situation and Xiao Ke even die! !   