共勉！

1.A girl should be two things: classy and fabulous.每个女孩都该做到两点：有品位并且光芒四射。2. In order to be irreplaceable, one must always be different. 想要无可取代，就必须时刻与众不同。3. fashion passes, style remains.时尚会过去，但风格永存。4. The best co lour in the whole world is the one that looks good, on you! 最适合你的颜色，才是世界上最美的颜色。5. Look for the woman in the dress, it there is no woman, there is no dress. 记得要寻找穿衣服的女人。如果完全看不到女人，衣服的意义 就失去了。6.Luxury must be comfortable, otherwise it is not luxury.奢侈就必须舒适，否则就不是奢侈。7. I love luxury. And luxury lies not in richness and ornateness but in the absence of vulgarity. Vulgarity is the ugliest word in our language. I stay in the game to fight it.我爱奢侈。奢侈并不意味着贵重与装饰华丽，奢侈就是屏除粗俗。粗俗是我们语言中最丑的一个词。我从事设计就是为了对抗粗俗。8 “Where should one use perfume?” a young woman asked.” wherever one wants to be kissed,” I said.”“应该在何处擦香水？：一位少妇问我。“只要是想被亲吻的地方”我如此回答。9. Dress shabbily and they remember the dress; dress impeccably and they remember the woman.穿着破旧，则人们记住衣服；穿着无暇，则人们记住衣服里的女人。10. I don’t understand how a woman can leave the house without fixing herself up a little ---if only out of politeness. And then, you never know, maybe that’s the day she has a date with destiny. And it’s best to be as pretty as possible for destiny.我无法理解一个女人怎么可以毫不修饰就走出家门，哪怕出于礼貌也该打扮一下。而且，你永远也猜不到，也许那天就是她与真命天子约会的一天。而为了自己的真命天子总是越美丽越好。11. There is no time for cut-and-dried monotony. There is time for work, And time for love. That leaves no other time.没有时间做一成不变的单调事。工作需要时间，爱情需要时间，就没有时间做其他了。12. A woman who doesn’t wear perfume has no future.不用香水的女人没有未来。13. Some people think luxury is the opposite of poverty. It is not. It is the opposite of vulgarity.有些人认为奢侈的反义词是贫穷。事实上不是这样。奢侈的反义词是粗俗。14. Fashion is made to become unfashionable.时尚创造就是为了使之过时。15.Success is often achieved by those who don’t know that failure is inevitable.取得成功的人往往是不知道失败是无可避免的那些人。16. Don’t spend time beating on a wall, hoping to transform t into a door.不要浪费时间敲一堵墙， 你无法将其变做一扇门。17. Innovation！ One can not be forever innovating! I want to create classics.创造！人不能永远创造。我想做的是制作经典。