0316 VS里昂赛后采访英文版

对应RAN的采访视频 转自sami LJ Mesut's post-Lyon match interview with a pretty young woman who makes Mesut feel nervous and shy - since he can't make eye contact with her, fidgets nervously, is even more than usually breathless and speaks uncommonly fast!Awwwzil!Interviewer: For six years in a row now the Champions League has been over for Real Madrid by this stage - but now they're in the quarter-finals - of course thanks to Mesut Ozil and his wonderful performance. What do you think of the team's performance?Mesut: We played really well. We knew we could beat them and we showed it today. We hardly let anything through at the back and used our scoring chances and really earned our win.Interviewer: We had the impression for a time that Lyon [unintelligible - the sound shifts at this precise moment] What was your impression of the opponent?Mesut: Naturally, we are Real Madrid and we had respect for them. We were playing at home and from the first moment we made a great effort and achieved the 1-0. That made the game easier for us because we had more room, we had more room (he's so sweet when he discusses tactics!) and we used them really well and really earned our win.Interviewer: One gets the impression, and its backed by the stats, that Real Madrid can't be beaten at home. It always goes really well here and also for you - how are finding your integration and your development [the development of his game, she means] is coming on?Mesut: Naturally I feel really good. The team really supports me very well and the boys are all really nice and I have the trust of the coach so I can bring my best efforts and I'm naturally so happy when I stand at my place on the field and bring my best performance and I'm a part of the team - as anyone can see - the team supports me and they make my life easy for me and allow me to bring my best game.Interviewer: Jose Mourinho has already praised you and he's said he's excited about what your National Team Coach has to say (Joachim Loew). You'll be meeting him. What will you discuss with him (Joachim Loew) tomorrow?Mesut: I don't know yet, I really couldn't tell you. I have no idea. [His smile is so adorable as he makes an effort to look her in the eye!]Interviewer: Well, tell me where? Do you know that yet?Mesut: I also don't know that!Interviewer: Well all right then. We also don't know who the next opponent is going be for Real Madrid but do you have any preferences - would you like Schalke.Mesut: We don't have a preference...[nice try Mesut!]Interviewer: No, no - I mean YOUR personal preference.Mesut: Oh, I see, well - against my ex-club that would be very nice, but we'll have to wait and see who our opponent will be and our goal is, naturally, to get to the next round.Interviewer: Are you aware of what's going on in the Bundesliga around Schalke at the moment?Mesut: I think that Dortmund will become Champions of Germany and naturally I'm pressing my thumbs for Schalke that they'll become Cup champions and the we could all celebrate together!*****Interviewer: We're talking now about Real Madrid, which has had a successful 3-0 game. For six times in a row now the Royals have failed to get past the last 16. Now that you've got past that, do you feel lighter or relieved about it?Sami: It was something one was aware of - a little jinx over Real Madrid that it couldn't get past for the past six years - and for such a large and important club like Real Madrid it was almost a scandal but - yeah - we had a good start, in the group stages and in the first leg - but we're just really glad to be into the next round.Interviewer: It didn't seem as though you were excessively required today. What's it like to stake your place in a club of super-stars?Sami: I have to prove myself every day. Not just in games, when I get the chance, but also in training. We have an unbelievable group with 20, 21 top-class players all of whom want to stand in the starting 11. Also it was never a question for me to play in every game. I came here to develop further - especially after the World Cup - but it's a lot of fun and I am aware that I've developed through every practice and through every game.Interviewer: Jogi Loew was in the stadium today to watch, above all else, you and your teammate Mesut Ozil. I don't know if you had time for a short chat. Were you relieved to hear that he'll be staying on until 2014?Sami: I think first of all that it was a logical thing. When you look at what the German National Team has achieved over the past few years - achieved with Joachim Loew - well a title is lacking for him too! So in the future we will all want to bring a title back to Germany and we can do that with Joachim Loew. He is a very refreshing (innovative) coach - especially with his use of younger players - the way he pushes them forward and helps them develop. So yes, we're very happy to have him until 2014.Interviewer: And we understand that your colleague Mesut Ozil is with our other interviewer.Interviewer #2: Yeah that's right. Mesut Ozil, today under the eyes of your National Team Coach you had a really good game - particularly in the second half where you were involved in two goals - you gave two assists. How would you describe your performance.Mesut (with a rather sexy sigh): Naturally I'm very pleased to have brought a good performance. But I only want to praise the team. We played well today. We knew we'd win and you could see that today.Interviewer #2: Were you also happy with your teammate Sami Khedira - who is in our studio.Mesut: Naturally, very pleased. And I'm so happy when I'm allowed to play with him. You can see that on the field. He works so hard for the team and is very important to us (awwwwzil!).Interviewer #2: You are now, for the first time after a long time, with Real Madrid in a quarter-final. Can we ask who you'd like to see in the next round? Maybe Schalke04 - your ex-club - with ex-legend, or rather, Madrid Legend Raul? Wouldn't that be something?Mesut: Naturally, our aim is to get through the next round. It doesn't matter if Schalke is our opponent - we'll have to see what happens on Friday - and of course our aim is to get through the next round.Interviewer #2 (joking): One last thing I have to tell you. We have Franz Beckenbauer in our studio and we heard earlier today that he was involved in your signing with Real Madrid. (this is a joke, Beckenbauer did no such thing, as will be made clear as the interview continues - but Mesut remains blithely unaware that he is being teased).Mesut (blushing): Thank you to Franz Beckenbauer.Interviewer #2: Did you know that?Mesut: No, I didn't know. (so in other words, completely missed the joke).Interviewer #2 (good-naturedly): Well now you do! Thank you Mesut Ozil!Interviewer (teasing Beckenbauer): Yes - that was definitely a spontaneous thank you (ie., the lad's clueless)! Well - you just told them that Mesut's a nice fellow, right?Beckenbauer: Well I was saying before the game - I can remember the game when Bayern Munich played Real Madrid (in August before Ozil was signed) - it was my farewell after 33 years and I was asked about the idea of Mesut Ozil (coming to Madrid). And I said "well, he's still developing, he's too young, and it's probably too early for him to come here...but the way he played today - that's what's important.Interviewer (to Sami): Now we want to ask you too - who do you prefer to meet in the next round? Schalke? Or perhaps your favourite rivals Barcelona? That's still a possibility. We had been talking (gestures at Beckenbauer) about the 5-0 earlier.Sami: Well, we have the luck this season to have a few opportunites to put the 5-0 to rights - in the league, but also in the Cup final. But it's really not important who our opponent in the next round is. Our goal is and must be the title and for that reason we'll be happy with any opponent. And if it has to be a German team - Schalke 04 - then we'll be happy about that because we'll get to play in our homeland again but we'll meet any opponent happily and hope to get past the quarter-finals.Interviewer: And if it happens, you'll have Jose Mourinho who's already won it with two teams. Sami Khedira thank you for the visit, we know you have to be getting along...