0316 SKY采访sami英文版

对应SKY的采访翻译来自sami LJInterviewer: Sami, what does this moving-in to the quarter finals of the Champions League mean to you and your team? Sami: Well, first of all we are very relieved to be in the next round. And then it is the next step, or so to speak, the second step, to the final, which we desperately want to achieve. That's why I think tonight it was a very nice and successful evening, with a convincing performance of the team and I think that's a good base for as in La Liga and with the team. Interviewer: Why did this first step to the final worked out so extremely well?Sami: Well, we were, as always, in top form, our coach showed us before the match all the details we need to now about Lyon. Tonight, we put all this preparation into practice superbly. On the pitch we all have secured our positions very well and hardly allowed any shots on our goal. Plus our fast offensive players were moving quickly so in the end I think it was a deserved win for us.Interviewer: Did you know that Joachim Löw was in the stadium tonight?Sami: Yes, we have talked on the phone the other day. He told me, that he will be here tonight and probably we will meet as well and have a talk. We Germans, Mesut and I, have been very happy, that he finally came to see us here in Madrid. Interviewer: What will you talk about tomorrow?Sami: Well, Mesut and I are not playing in Germany and we do not have games with the Nation Team every other week so this is a good opportunity to talk to him about our live here in Madrid, how we have been settled in here - quite a lot of things like that to talk about. (grins very knowingly ....)Interviewer: Meanwhile you must speak Spanish almost perfectly, no?Sami: Oh no! I understand quite a lot but for I am more the reserved type I have a bit of a hard time to talk Spanish myself. But when people talk to me in town or in a restaurant, I understand, what they want.Interviewer: You know now the clubs, that are in the quater finals of the Champions League. Is there somebody you'd prefer or - better - not prefer.Sami: Well, not really. We want to get into the final, want to win the title, so in the end we have to try and beat every opponent, if it is the quarter final or the final. If it would be a german team, Schalke, we would be happy, for we would play in Germany. But in the end we don't care who it will be.Interviewer: Are you still keeping your fingers crossed for the VfB Stuttgart, who are struggling right now to stay in the 1. Bundesliga?Sami: Certainly! I have played 15 years for this club, my whole family still lives in Stuttgart. That's why I am still looking with one eye to VfB Stuttgart. The last three matches were very successful for Stuttgart, I am very happy about that. And I am certain that they will make it and secure the Bundesliga.