from the little prince

"What must I do, to tame you?" asked the little prince. 　　"You must be very patient," replied the fox. "First you will sit down at a little distance from me-- like that-- in the grass. I shall look at you out of the corner of my eye, and you will say nothing. Words are the source of misunderstandings. But yo u will sit a little closer to me, every day..." The next day the little prince came back. 　　"It would have been better to come back at the same hour," said the fox. "If, for example, you come at four o‘clock in the afternoon, then at three o‘clock I shall begin to be happy. I shall feel happier and happier as the hour advances. At four o‘clock, I shall already be worrying and jumping about. I shall show you how happy I am! But if you come at just any time, I shall never know at what hour my heart is to be ready to greet you... One must observe the proper rites..." ...　The little prince went away, to look again at the roses. 　　"You are not at all like my rose," he said. "As yet you are nothing. No one has tamed you, and you have tamed no one. You are like my fox when I first knew him. He was only a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But I have made him my friend, and now he is unique in all the world."　　And the roses were very much embarrassed. 　　"You are beautiful, but you are empty," he went on. "One could not die for you. To be sure, an ordinary passerby would think that my rose looked just like you-- the rose that belongs to me. But in herself alone she is more important than all the hundreds of you other roses: because it is she that I have watered; because it is she that I have put under the glass globe; because it is she that I have sheltered behind the screen; because it is for her that I have killed the caterpillars (except the two or three that we saved to become butterflies); because it is she that I have listened to, when she grumbled, or boasted, or even sometimes when she said nothing. Because she is my rose. 　　And he went back to meet the fox. 　　"Goodbye," he said. 　　"Goodbye," said the fox. "And now here is my secret, a very simple secret: It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye." 　　"What is essential is invisible to the eye," the little prince repeated, so that he would be sure to remember.　　"It is the time you have wasted for your rose that makes your rose so important." 　　"It is the time I have wasted for my rose--" said the little prince, so that he would be sure to remember. 　　"Men have forgotten this truth," said the fox. "But you must not forget it. You become responsible, forever, for what you have tamed. You are responsible for your rose..." 　　"I am responsible for my rose," the little prince repeated, so that he would be sure to remember.