To Gaby and The ERA

 There are three kinds of women in the world, the kind of women you admire but don’t want to be, you dream to be but never say it out loud and the kind you know you are not and never will be. Gaby is the definitely third kind.She is the most sophisticated girl I’ve ever seen. Some girls are clever, but she is smart. She got along well with everyone, though she might frown as soon as she turned back. Seldom making plans though, she was always clear about what she wanted. I was always amazed to see how she could deal with many thorny problems at the same time. I once envied her for being so lucky, later I realised she had the credit for what she had.She is a master of relationships, because she is always in control. Spinning around among men, she only made them to baffle. Batches of men come and go, but she is still true to herself. She put on dramatic shows, played “desperately in love” girl, loved and hated with all her strength, only for the sake of herself.She is such a special girl that influenced me in many ways, which she may not even know. I’ve traveled to some places in the past two years, alone. But I really don’t think it would ever happen without her, because I learned from her to be independent and OK about being alone. I easily panick under pressure, it was her who taught me “how to get things done.” The comedy Friends she suggested me to see somehow changed the way I think and talk.We witnessed almost every important moments in each other’s college life, so when she graduated one year earlier before me, I kind of felt my college life was also gone with her. Once, we sat next to each other, chitchatting and holding hard not to laugh aloud. We took the debate contest as a team and celebrated our failure with a big meal. When I was being silly and paranoid about Steve, she was there. When she was squeezing her foot into a new shoe like Cinderella’s stepsister, I was there. “Gaby is crazy; Jane is insane; that’s why we are friends.” I once said. Although it’s not exactly true, we both liked it.I will miss the moments of giggles and chuckles.I will miss the time when an eye contact said everything.I will miss all the “not-so-lady” talk we had. I will miss the morning we walked on the cobbles on the seaside.I will miss all the liangmian, chuancai and pineapple we ate together.I will miss the Friends time.Although you, Funr and I didn’t hang out together that much, I surely think it was a memory for us. I always think if we three were characters in Friends, I would definitely be Monica, obsessive and high-maintenance; you would be the hearthrob Rachel; and Funr be the weird and happy-go-lucky Phoebe. I just felt really luck to meet you guys and I would ask for no more.We were different girls from the very beginning and we are about to take on separate roads. My definition of friends is people who can “get” each other no matter with a set of exculsive codes or no words. I think that’s pretty much what we had. I had several friends from early age, and I hate to admit that you know me better than either of them. I don’t know if I will ever meet someone who is so different but also shares so much in common with me.Just as you know, you have at least seven friends, Monica, Rachel, Phoebe, Chandler, Joey, Ross and also the one  with two big ears.Farewell, Gaby.Farewell, The ERA.P.S.  Miss Reality read your article and she was almost moved to tears (but she did laugh to tears a little bit). We’ve never say those things to each other lest cheesy and awkward moments. But I know there’s one more reason---- they are too true to say them out loud. I wrote this to tell you that you really mean a lot to me, maybe even more than you thought. OK, I’d better stop here lest people think we are lesbains.