What do you think about Chinese people?

英文部分收集自各大国外论坛，翻译不地道之处欢迎指出，多包涵 ( =∩ω∩= )To tell the truth, the Chineese people are quite a mystery to me. I think they are a) hard workers, b) tending to live and act in groups (according to the Chineese tourists I had observed), and c) a bit insulated from the outer world, as the foreing politics of China is. But that is only what I imagine basing on several facts I know, I don't have an experience of communication with the Chineese.其实我觉得中国人挺神秘的，我觉得他们 a)都很努力 b)喜欢群居（观察中国游客得出的结论），c)跟外界有些隔绝，因为之前的政策问题吧。当然这些仅仅是我个人意见，毕竟我没跟中国人交流过呐。They r soo smart ..........................in my school there are lots of Chinese pple the all get like 90 or 95% soo I think they r so smart ,,,,,,, no wonder y I hate them lol just joking I am not racist他们超~聪明！我学校有很多中国人，他们都拿90、95%（译者按：国外40%及格，70%以上是A），我觉得他们脑子很好用~ 啧啧，难怪我讨厌他们~哈哈哈哈！开玩笑啦，俺不是种族主义者。They are delicious.他们很好吃=v=I have been living in China for three years, Chinese people are generally gentle and friendly. Chinese girls are the most beautiful girls with the softest skin, shapely figure and generally hard working attitude. 我在中国生活过三年，大部分中国人很温和友善。中国妹子是最美的！有着柔嫩的肌肤，凹凸有致的身材和努力认真的生活态度。How ever, I have been used by Chinese people. I am an English teacher from the U'K. and Chinese parents, and fellow colleagues have invited me for meals under the guise of friendship when the real intention is to speak english with their son or daughter. As a result, I feel like a machine and feel terrible. I'm bombarded with questions. 但我被中国人利用过。我是英国人，赴中国任职英文教师。中国家长和我的中国同事总以友谊的名义请我吃饭，结果都是让我跟他们的子女练习英文，囧，我不是步步高点读机啊亲！一顿饭下来被接二连三的英语问题弄郁闷了。Another aspect of Chinese life is 'Guanxi' this means connections. Generally, the Chinese system is corrupt, it's a matter of who you know and how much you can pay. I'm sure this happens in many countries, but here it's particularly rampant. 在中国生活要会搞“关///系”，总体而言中国的体制很腐///败，能不能办成事归根结底就是人脉和钱多钱少的问题。我知道在很多国家也有类似的情况，但是在中国，腐///败的形势尤其猖獗。On the whole, Chinese people speak from the heart and not the head, they are a spiritual people. For 2,500 years the law of Confucious was the nation's guide, this taught people how to be a 'good citizen' . Then when Mao ze dong, deng xiao ping, Zhou en lai, ect, took over one can see a demise of a civilization. Mao obliterated Zhongguo culture. This dictator was responsible for a famine in the mid- 60's which led to cannibalism. (read Jung Chang's Wild Swans). Today, the CPPCC are all business graduates, the country is geared towards science and technology, the intellectuals don't really exist.总结就是，中国人注重用心交流，善于精神沟通。儒家思想统领华人世界2500年，教会人们怎样成为“有良知的公民”。但当毛，邓，周等人的接管终结了中华文明。毛使中国文化闭塞。中国在60年代中期闹过一场大饥荒，甚至导致了人吃人的惨况。毛，这位独///裁///者，正是这一切惨案的始作俑者。（张戎的《鸿》中有所描述）。现今中国政///协///代表集中在工商领域，这个国家在科技范畴全力进攻。所谓的知识份子，已经不存在了。They are the old, bent over, Chinese people who have been living in North America for 20 30 years, and are completely ignorant...and now they are hospitalized and can't speak a lick of English. WTF, learn some f#cking English for Christ's sake! They just go about living in Little China or wherever, and never interact with any other culture. Anyone who is selfish enough to live their life in this way is a waste of human flesh if you ask me. When in Rome...you know the saying. If you live in the US, Canada, Britain, or any other predominantly English speaking society...learn some f#cking English!在北美居住了2、30年的中国人都很老，驼背，超级愚昧自大……住院的时候甚至不晓得说一丁点儿英语！草泥马看在上帝的份上学点尼玛的英文吧！他们只去中国城或类似的地方，从不跟其他文化交流。像他们这样自私地活着简直是浪费空气。入乡随俗好吧。如果要在美加英或是其他英语国家生活，学点尼玛的英文吧！hey there,I am a chinese,though not origin from china. personally I think the chinese are smart,be it the native chinese or not. In my school,we are always the ones who fill the top classes. however,i also think that being smart makes us "cunning". we tend to "use" people and we are selfish (my chinese classmates would never share information that will help us to score in tests or whatsoever,and most of my best friends are non-chinese as I am tired of all the politics ) and,no offence but we often see in newspapers to what extend the chinese merchants can do just to make more money(if you still remember the 2008 milk scandal). unfortunately in my country most of the people are paranoid to purchase/consume goods made in china. once again I would like to apologise if my comment is offensive.各位好，我是华人，不过不是中国的。我觉得华人很聪明，无论是不是土生土长的华人。在学校我们华人总能拿班里前几名。但是我也感觉聪明能让人变得“狡诈”我们时常“利用”别人，我们很自私（我这里的中国同学从来不跟大家分享考试可能有用的资料。也无所谓了，我讨厌装腔作势，所以基本不找华人当好朋友）别见怪，说实话我们经常见到报纸上说中国商人如何惟利是图（遥想08年毒牛奶事件），很不幸的是在我的国家，很多人依然偏执地购买中国制造的商品。如果有冒犯到你，我很抱歉。To clarify, Chinese are not generally good at math, they are generally very good at arithmetic.  This is because the language has a very simple and logical way of representing numbers over ten whereas English uses arbitrary words to represent the numbers.  In higher mathematics China is not competitive.需要澄清的一点是，中国人并不都数学好，他们只是算术好。因为中文里的十以上的数字词是简明且有逻辑联系的，但是英语都用任意的生词代表阿拉伯数字。在高等数学领域中国没有竞争力。“Hmmm... Chinese people huh?Well I'm learning Chinese right now, and I have been to Taiwan. I must say, In Taiwan, the people there are incredibly friendly. But speaking about Chinese people, I feel as if the Chinese immigrants that come to the United States are incredibly rude. Now, the most obvious reason as to why this, is probably because they are some of the less educated chinese populations. It is almost sad that the chinese immigrants are poor representatives of Chinese people. 恩哼，中国人呐……我正在学中文，之前去过台湾，必须说台湾人真是超友善的>< 但说到中国人，我感觉移民来美国的中国人都非常粗鲁。可能是因为他们受教育程度低吧。挺可悲的，不得不说这些移民让中国人的海外印象变得很糟。For example, the other day at a chinese restaruant, the chinese host tryed to discouarge me from speaking chinese to her. She would just ignore any chinese I said and speak to me in english, and then speak chinese to the other chinese workers. (Chinese owners only hire chinese people, by the way. I tried applying to a chinese restaurant, and they only laughed at me, didn't even give me an application forum) Also, she would talk about me, and loudly about how I had a crappy accent and that I probably only knew a little bit, which was not true becuase... I understood what she was saying about me the whole time.举个栗子，有天在中国餐馆，老板娘完全忽视我跟她说的中文，硬要用英语跟我交流，然后回头对着其他员工依然讲中文。（btw中国老板只雇佣中国人。我尝试申请去中国餐厅打工，但所有员工只是嘲笑我，连申请表都没给我）她还大声谈论我，揶揄我发音奇怪中文烂，连她在笑我都不知道。其实她讲的我都听懂了。So I can't say Chinese people are all friendly. In all honesty, I haven't met a friendly chinese person yet except for my chinese teachers. It's kinda sad, I still say its from the education, and also the fact that American are pretty hostile to foreigners. Yet, I also feel there is a closed cultural feel in the Chinese society, that they see you only as a foreigner. You can't be a friend, a lover, a *something*! Just an "American", no matter how hard you try for their acceptance. It's pretty sad, but that's the culture I suppose. *sigh*所以我不敢说所有中国人都友善，老实说除了我的中文老师，我还没遇见过一个友善的中国人呢。挺难过的，我依然觉得这一切是教育所致。再者必须承认美国人对外来者会有些敌对。同时中国的社会文化比较内敛封闭，无论你多努力想求得他们的认同，中国人只把你当外邦人。你不会是朋友、爱人或是其他任何的角色，你仅仅是一个“美国人”。呵呵。这大概就是中国文化吧╮(￣▽￣”)╭ It's just that it really discourages me from learning chinese, I mean, What the hell you know?  ”这真的让我没动力继续学中文了。你懂的。