芝士鲜蔬海鲜派（鱼派）Jamie's Ministry of Food | Fish Pie | Channel 4

This is a fantastically simple fish pie which doesnt involve poaching the fish or making a tedious white sauce. Loads of good, fragrant veg are added quickly by grating them in. You can use whatever fish you like, making this as luxurious as you want it to be. If you like your fish pie to be creamy, feel free to add a few tablespoons of crème fraîche to the fish.这是个非常简单的鱼派，不需要煮鱼也不用花长时间做白汁（译者按：一般是用牛油、面粉、盐、水调制而成，我做过的比较讲究，加的是鲜奶油和车打芝士）。各种食材、鲜蔬用刨丝器处理。这里对鱼的品种没有限制，你可以买便宜的鲈鱼或是贵价海鲜。如果你爱香浓口感，大可加几勺法式发酵酸奶油进派里。To prepare your fish pie.准备工作Preheat the oven to 200°C/400°F/gas 6 and bring a large pan of salted water to the boil. Peel the potatoes and cut into 2cm chunks. 用200°C/400°F/gas 6 预热烤箱，同时煮一大锅盐水。把去皮的土豆切成两厘米见方。Once the water is boiling, add your potatoes and cook for around 12 minutes, until soft (you can stick your knife into them to check). 水沸腾后放进土豆块，煮12分钟左右，（可以先扔在一边准备其他食材）直至变软（用餐刀/筷子试）。Meanwhile, get yourself a deep baking tray or earthenware dish and stand a box grater in it. Peel the carrot. Grate the celery, carrot and Cheddar on the coarse side of the grater. Use the fine side of the grater to grate the zest from the lemon. 将盒型刨丝器放到一个足够深的烤盘/陶瓷的碟子里。用刨丝器粗孔的一边刨芹菜、去皮的红萝卜、车打芝士，用细孔的一边刨下柠檬外皮黄色的部分。Finely grate or chop your chilli. Finely chop the parsley leaves and stalks and add these to the tray. 把辣椒刨丝或切细。切好欧芹（叶子和梗都可以用）。把以上处理好的食材都放进烤盘。（译者按：这个烤盘非常大，做出来是6个人的量）To cook and serve your fish pie.烹调、上菜Cut the salmon and smoked haddock into bite-size chunks and add to the tray with the prawns. Squeeze over the juice from the zested lemon (no pips please!) 把大虾和切成一口大小三文鱼和烟熏黑线鳕块放进烤盘。将准备工作中用过的柠檬挤汁（柠檬籽不要）。drizzle with olive oil and add a good pinch of salt and pepper.撒橄榄油，加一点盐和胡椒。If you want to add any spinach or tomatoes, do it now.如果想的话，现在可以加菠菜或者/和番茄。 Mix everything together really well. 把烤盘里所有食材搅拌均匀。By now your potatoes should be cooked, so drain them in a colander and return them to the pan. Drizzle with a couple of good lugs of olive oil and add a pinch of salt and pepper. 现在土豆应该煮好，捞出滤水再放回锅内，撒橄榄油，加盐和胡椒。 Mash until nice and smooth, then spread evenly over the top of the fish and grated veg. 把土豆和调味料搅匀压成泥，然后均匀铺在烤盘里搅拌好的食材上。Place in the preheated oven for around 40 minutes, or until cooked through, crispy and golden on top.把烤盘放入预热过的烤箱中，烤40分钟的样子（或至烤透，面上的土豆酥脆金黄）。Serve piping hot with tomato ketchup, baked beans, steamed veg or a lovely green salad.趁热上桌，可以就着番茄酱、茄汁焗豆（译者按：英国传统食物，各大超市均有罐头贩卖）、蒸蔬菜或蔬菜沙拉吃。