燃烧(Combustion)

友邻问我燃烧的问题，整理一下国外希腊占星师的一些看法，汇总如下：1、 在这个帖子里，Mr zoidsoft说到：“Combustion interferes with the ability of the planet to produce it's effects (which is not the only thing that can interfere - there are several factors to consider).”点评：燃烧干涉星体产生自己效用的能力（而且注意的是，燃烧干涉的不止星体的一种功能，而是若干种功能）2、在这个帖子里，Mr  zoidsoft说到：“ What is actually happening to a combust planet (metaphorically)? It is becoming invisible and it is burning up. It is also part of the cycle of orientality and occidentality which is a cycle of birth to death. What does it mean for a planet to be in it's own places? (Sign, exaltation, etc) The theory is that a planet it any of it's own dignities (Schmidt would differentiate these as they each mean different things because dignities is actually a selective translation of the Greek "axiomaticos" that doesn't capture the whole sense of the original concept) has resources that it can use to protect itself from the Sun (being in a covered chariot is one of them). ”点评：燃烧星体将变得：A、不可见（hidden,invisible)；B 、被灼烧（burned up）。此外还提到燃烧星体的出入相涉及到星体的death and rebirth：星体入相燃烧实际可象征星体的死亡，而离相燃烧可隐喻星体的重生。3、 在这个帖子里，Mr zoidsoft说到：“I think people are conflating 2 different issues here. There is the issue of a planet being combust which is burning and then there is the issue of visibility which also has to do with how close it is to the Sun. In most medieval texts there is a difference in range between being under the beams or "invisible" (usually 15) and being burned (usually 8 ) and this might have something to do with the difference. Theoretically a planet is doing several things and chief among them are providing testimony and witnessing.The lot is in the glare and Venus is not burned (because of the covered chariot concept), but Venus is also in the glare. This affects their ability to be seen and therefore it breaks down the testimony / witnessing that make things happen.”点评：“Theoretically a planet is doing several things and chief among them are providing testimony and witnessing.”，这提到了星体的功能之一，就是形成所谓的相位关系。“The lot is in the glare and Venus is not burned (because of the covered chariot concept), but Venus is also in the glare. This affects their ability to be seen and therefore it breaks down the testimony / witnessing that make things happen.”这个提到了燃烧对星体功能的影响之一，就是即使星体入庙擢升等能够削弱被burned up的影响，但是星体become invisible and thus hidden,希腊占星的相位概念中，星体被燃烧可能会极大地影响两个星体的互动关系（所谓的相位关系）。4、"A planet may be protected from the effects of the Sun's rays, but one should not think that the native would necessarily be protected from the effects of this combustion in all respects. What is good for the planet is not necessarily good for the native. "点评：星体或许可以因为入庙擢升等而在燃烧中受到一些保护，但是不可以这么认为盘主就一定在各个方面都受到保护。这句话其实应该从两个方面理解：A、What is good for the planet is not necessarily good for the native.对星体好的未必对盘主好，所以我说过要看燃烧的星体是什么地位？盘主，命主，福点主还是先天凶星？后天凶星，凶宫宫主？因为如果一个星体对盘主的福德极大损坏，某种程度被燃烧或许是件好事。B、还有一点就是，燃烧的星体会丧失很多功能，入庙擢升的星体可以避免被Burned up，但是依然不可见，这可能会影响她与其他星体的互动关系，甚至影响相关Lots魔力的展现。5、It will be considered "hidden" either way. The question is whether it has resources to protect itself from getting burned and if Venus is in any of its own places (Domicile, Confines (terms), exaltation (some say trigon also) then it is still "potent" as suggested by Schmidt's recent translation of Antiochus.点评：这点其实对应了上面的内容，即星体被燃烧时，不可见（invisible，hidden）是不可避免的，但是如果星体入庙， 擢升，落自己界主（也有加上三分主星的），那么某种程度上可以降低削弱be burned up的效用。6、加入自己的一点评述，讲讲burned up的效用太阳是颗霸道的星体，定义星体的燃烧和逆行，但是自己却从不逆行和燃烧。太阳有order sth to be done的意思，看看君王，父亲，老板就知道了。所以星体被燃烧时会有压制的感觉，因为会被命令做自己不一定喜欢的事。例如日土合在天秤座，父亲老板可能想帮你相亲，希望你赶紧结婚，或者好好与别人相处，但是土星有reject的关键含义，那么就希望自我隔绝，封闭，晚婚不婚等等，被太阳燃烧就会发生很大的冲突，会一直被压制（要看出入相，入相发生的事件会不可避免的）。7、"Hellenistically, when a planet is "under the beams", the Sun takes unto itself the significations offered by that planet, unless the planet is in a "covered chariot" which protects it from the beams, allowing it to speak for itself.This "covered chariot" indicates the planet is in one of its dignities: domicile, exaltation, trigon, or bounds. I would suggest reception is additionally protective.Otherwise, when the planet under the beams becomes a time-lord, you look to the Sun. When the Sun becomes a time lord, it allows the planet(s) significations to appear.It seems more of an inconvenience than a malefic consideration, yet as the Sun can demonstrate a malefic nature, this consideration is not regarded as positive."点评：星体燃烧，太阳将接管被燃烧星体的征象，除非星体落入"covered chariot"——入庙，擢升，落自己界主和三分主星。这点其实提到了上面Burned up的效用，即霸道的太阳将干涉影响星体的自我需求，比如土星同学想要自我隔绝，但是太阳就是想要土星不自我隔绝，这其实并不是土星需要的。"It seems more of an inconvenience than a malefic consideration, yet as the Sun can demonstrate a malefic nature, this consideration is not regarded as positive"提到了，be burned up或许看起来是一种不方便要比判凶要更有感觉点吧（这是安慰星体被燃烧人的话），具体应该看燃烧星体的星性，主导事宜等等了。8、总结：A、星体被燃烧，产生两种情况，be burned up and invisible，被灼烧而且将不可见。由此产生星体功能的被干涉也有两种即：星体不可见会影响星体在几个星体的互动关系（所谓的相位），星体如果不可见，那么别的星体看不到她，如何互动呢？星体be burned up星体自身需求，欲求，想要做与自己星性特点一致的需求会被霸道的太阳压制。B、星体在燃烧的时候，不可见这条是不可避免的，但是be burned会因为星体入庙，擢升，落自身界，落自身三分主星而削弱或者降低影响。C、需要看被燃烧星体在星盘的功能，是盘主？命主？影响福德的星体？无关紧要的星体？穷凶极恶的星体？D、当星体被燃烧时，还可能会影响被燃烧星体组成的阿拉伯点的力量展现。E、燃烧的出入相状态差别也很大的，古典占星书籍在描述福点主，命主等被燃烧时，离相的状况要比入相好很多。F、太阳不止是所谓的什么性格，意志什么的，还可以主导父亲，领导，强力人物等，所有太阳征象的事宜人物都会在燃烧中影响被燃烧的星体自身征象的人物和事宜。