希腊占星中的System of Hermes系统

System of Hermes系统是国外希腊占星学者Robert Schmidt整合的希腊占星分析系统，共分为四个模块：A、Preliminary Natal Analysis——分析星体是否具有能力带来或者展现其星体征象的事宜和人物，以及其带给盘主的事宜是否有利于盘主。B、Universal Techniques——从总体上，宏观上分析盘主的格局、地位、福德，总体是否幸福，人生总体是平淡无奇，还是先爬上高位而后跌落，还是先悲催而后崛起等等。C、Topical Methods——从人生的各个方面，如父母，婚姻，子嗣，财富，事业，健康等具体的方面分析盘主在各个领域遭遇的事宜是有还是无，是吉还是凶，是多还是寡。D、Time Lord Procedures——时主系统，类似印度占星的dasa（大运系统），即星体作为时间的主人，在其大运星限内带给盘主其本命承诺，显现出的各种事宜和人物。 概括上述四个模块得流程和功能即——首先分析星体是否有能力展现其征象的事宜和人物，以及分析其带给盘主的事宜是吉还是凶——在上述分析的基础上，总体分析盘主的格局地位，总体状况，不同星体在盘主生命中担当的角色——从人生的各个子方面，如婚姻、父母等微观分析盘主在各方面的福德——分析各类星体在何时被激活，激活时间的长度，然后作为时主的星体将为盘主带来本命静态分析呈现的各种事宜和人物。一、Preliminary Natal Analysis(PNA)A、The preliminary natal analysis examines the overall condition of each planet in the chart, judging its capacity to conduct its business and make manifest the events it signifies. 点评：PNA模块分析的星体在星盘中的总体状况，判断他们带来其征象事宜、事件的能力。Planets are evaluated as to their effectiveness according to such factors as their sect, zodiacal sign rulerships, house placement, configurations and aspects, speed, visibility, direction, and phase relationship to the Sun. 点评：根据星体的sect(昼夜派系），星座落点（)，宫位状况，相位配置，速度，可视性，顺行还是逆行以及太阳定义的phase状况(包含前面的顺逆行，然后燃烧，偕日升，偕日降等等）评估星体的总体状况。The astrologer is looking to the relative strength, power, benefic or malefic nature, intensity, and happiness of the planet; and thus its ability to produce its significations.And judge whether the kind of business that is being conducted is good or bad for the native点评：占星师根据星体的能力、力量，吉凶性、强化度等考察星体产生带来其征象事宜、事件的能力，以及星体带来的事件、事宜是否有利于盘主 。This analysis is completed before any interpretations are made concerning the specific meaning of the planet in the chart.点评：在关注星盘任何星体的具体特质时，必须先进行PNA模块分析。B、PNA dynamical level子模块The dynamic level is divided up according to the 3 levels of activity in the cosmos: terrestrial level, planetary level and zodiacal level.  Each of these 3 levels is also looked at over time according to fitness, energy and completion which Schmidt says is like Aristotle's 3 levels: Dunamis, Energiea, Intellichiea.  This is about potential on the first level, the level of activity on the second and then the outcome (fruition) on the 3rd level.In short, the PNA Report is there to help you to judge the ability of the planets to bring about their significations based upon ability, motivation and fortune (luck).图片显示的是PNA dynamical level子模块，该模块采用矩阵形式分析。列模块从fitness、energy、completion三个方面分析星体的是否具有能力（资格）、动力（能量）、以及最终完成度带给盘主它征象的事宜。而行模块从宫位层面、与光体的互动层面以及星座层面三大角度，分析星体是否具有能力带给盘主征象的事宜。1、fitness层面该层面分析的是星体是否具有资格、天赋、能力带给盘主征象的事宜（需要指出的是，有天赋不代表有机遇!)分析星体是否有天赋，则可以从宫位层面、与光体的互动层面以及星座层面分析。A、宫位层面：整宫分宫下，星体在角宫、续宫下具有资格，而在果宫下则相对虚弱无力，基本不具备带给盘主征象事宜的能力。B、与光体互动层面：星体顺行以及远离日光的情形下是有力的，可以带给盘主征象的事宜的，但是被燃烧以及逆行状况下是有很大问题的，较难带给盘主应当带给她的事宜。C、星座层面：在入庙、擢升、自己的界主层面是极为有力的，在place of sect mate下，需要依赖sect mate的助力。2、energy层面该层面分析的是星体是否具有足够的动力、能里、机遇带给盘主征象的事宜，以及该事宜的影响程度大小（需要指出的是，有能量不代表有资格和能力)分析星体是否有能量，依然可以从宫位层面、与光体的互动层面以及星座层面分析。A、宫位层面：这次必须采用四分仪分宫了，星体在四分仪分宫的角宫、续宫具有足够的动力能量，而在果宫下则相对虚弱无力，基本不具备带给盘主征象事宜的动力。B、与光体互动层面：星体偕日升以及处于顺逆行转换的交界状态中是极端强化的。C、星座层面：需要从星体所落星座的三分主星层面判断三分主星带给星体的驱动力和能量。3、completion层面该层面分析的是星体最终带给盘主征象的事宜的完成度、终结度。分析星体的完成度，依然可以从宫位层面、与光体的互动层面以及星座层面分析。A、宫位层面：这次必须采用福点分宫了，简单地说星体在福点分宫的角宫、续宫带给盘主的事项是完成度高的，效果持久不可逆转的，而在果宫下则相对要弱化很多。B、与光体互动层面：这次不是看与太阳的互动关系，而是看与月亮的出入相了。C、星座层面：需要从星体所落星座的基本星座、固定星座、变动星座特质分析，固定星座基本会带来持久稳定，不可逆转的层面（所以相对金星落固定星座是件好事），变动星座则会最终带来事件的完成，但最终是偏题、跑题的。================================================================然后把国外占星论坛希腊占星高手的例子点评一下例子来源于astroweekly网站的一个叫BOB的希腊占星高手，我节选他说的话如下：Firstly, your LoF ruler is the malefic Saturn and the first condition is his fitness or ability within your cosmic fingerprint.He is post ascending (succeedent) which means it has the potential to bring the fruits of your actions back to you, though it may not be immediate and may take a lot of work. He is rising and direct in motion which increase his overall fitness and masculinity which is important for a masculine planet. Saturn, in order to be cosmically permitted to pursue his own agenda must be able to be seen in the sky (rising) and direct in motion.As Saturn is in Sagittarius he is visible and in the place of a sect-mate, namely Jupiter. What this means is he loses some power to directly affect the things he signifies, but he can affect them and find outlet through his other sect-mates the Sun & Jupiter, if they are suitably placed. In plain English Saturn can affect the sign he is in, and the signs containing the Sun and Jupiter. This gives discipline to studies involving higher education and the higher mind (some foresight), creativity and some care in financial planning. It may be important to remember here that Saturn signifies old age; so much of this is describing what you may have achieved by then. As you are only young, you have your whole life in front of you, you will have many opportunities to grow, learn and adapt where by strengthening your cosmic weaknesses you can build a brighter future.点评：这段评估的是星体的资格、天赋、能力层面，对应前面第一段的fitness层面，该层面分析的是星体是否具有资格、天赋、能力带给盘主征象的事宜（需要指出的是，有天赋不代表有机遇!)Bob提的第一点就是星体在整宫分宫下的情况，星体整宫下落角宫最有能力，落续宫次之，最后是果宫。Bob提的第二点就是与太阳的互动，星体在顺行和不被燃烧的情况下是有能力的，逆行和燃烧下虚弱或者不具备资格顺利带给盘主应该带来的事宜。Bob提的第三点就是星体所落星座的特质，即星体落星座的入庙擢升守护是否能够支持或者乐于提供资源帮助宫内星。The second condition looks at the energy of Saturn, while he may have ability to affect matters one needs to know how energetic he is in pursuing these things. First on the list here is whether he has any connection to the natal ascendant, which in your case is yes by dexter sextile. Second is whether or not he is making a phasis. Because phasis has many considerations I cannot go into them here. Suffice to say in your chart Saturn does not make a phasis in the allotted time. The third consideration is the trigon inhabited by Saturn. Schmidt says the trigons act like a wind helping one towards his destiny. In his own trigon the wind would be behind pushing one forward and assisting us, in a cooperating trigon is like a neutral (slightly favourable) wind. A foreign wind is not necessarily bad for it just shows that one will visit many unknown destinations (unpredictable). Saturn in your chart has a cooperating wind, this means that the energy behind Saturn is blowing you in a favourable direction, maybe not at light speed but he is getting to his destination in a slow but steady way.点评：这段评估的是星体的动力（能量）层面，对应前面第一段的energy层面，该层面分析的是星体是否具有足够的动力、能量、机遇带给盘主征象的事宜，以及该事宜的影响程度大小（需要指出的是，有能量不代表有资格和能力)Bob提的第一点就是星体与命度的关系，实际准确的说是四分仪分宫下，星体的落宫状况。Bob提的第二点就是与太阳的互动，是否被燃烧，是否偕日升，是否处于将要逆行或者恢复顺行的临界状态，phasis简单的就是说太阳定义的星体的逆行、恢复顺行，燃烧，以及各种星力强化、减弱的临界状态。Bob提的第三点就是星体所落星座的特质，即星体落星座的三分主星是否能够带给星体足够的动力。Next comes 3 ways of assessing whether that planet completes or breaks off the energy he has put into his actions. This first consideration is the planets relationship to the LoF houses. Saturn in your chart is in the 12th Fortuna house which is slightly unfavourable because it deflects away any positive actions from returning to you. This signifies that while Saturn in your chart has the ability to act and an appropriate energy level to perform, you may not hang around long enough to get the rewards you sometimes deserve. Alternatively, some other event may come up just when Saturn was about to give you his rewards, a bit like having the rug pulled from under your feet.The second of these three conditions is lunar application which has to do with how long the effects of a particular action may last; applying would be long lasting, separating would mean moderately lasting or separated meaning of even shorter duration. In your case the lunar application is separating.The third of these considerations is what quadruplicity Saturn is in. This consideration defines what happens to the significations initiated by Saturn; fixed is stable and long lasting, mutable indicates the actions would not be followed through to a completion, and cardinal indicate that what is started is later broken off.Suffice to say, your Saturn occupies a mutable sign.点评：这段评估的是星体的完成度层面，对应前面第一段的completion层面，该层面分析的是星体最终带给盘主征象的事宜的完成度、终结度，是持久的还是半途中断的。Bob提的第一点就是星体与福点的互动关系，例子中土星在福点的12宫，所以相对来说不是很有利，因为土星位于福点12宫，将会把土星带给盘主的正面作用带走。相当于土星正要给你礼物的时候，有人跑过来把恶作剧的把你脚下的毯子抽走，让你很郁闷。Bob提的第二点就是星体与月亮的出入相位关系，如果与月亮入相，则星体带给盘主的作用是持久的；如果与月亮离相，星体带给盘主的作用将比较短暂或者不会很持久。Bob提的第三点就是星体所落星座的特质，即落固定星座还是基本星座还是变动星座。落固定星座将带来持久稳定不可逆转的效用，落变动星座带来的效用是跑题的，基本星座带来的转折或者无法完成的效用。C、Benefic / Malefic modifications子模块This section isn't about the ability of the planets to bring about their significations like the dynamic level.  Instead, this indicates whether the kind of business that is being conducted is good or bad for the native.  Most of the time it is a mixture with a predomination of one side over the other.  This section is used to spot problem planets in the chart.图片显示的是Benefic / Malefic modifications子模块，该模块分析的是星体带给盘主的事宜是有利于盘主的还是不利于盘主的（星体是否具有能力能里带给盘主事宜和星体带给盘主事宜是好的还是坏的，是两码事。1、attitude层面基本就是分析星体对盘主的态度问题了，就是它带给盘主的东西是好还是坏了，分析星体带来事宜的好坏，依然可以从宫位层面、与光体的互动层面以及星座层面分析。A、整宫下，星体在整宫除6、8、12、2四个宫位下，基本是带给盘主有利事宜的B、与光体互动层面，得时的星体是有利于盘主的，不得时的星体相对危害甚大。C、星座层面，星体在入庙、得时、落自己界的情况下是有利于盘主的，detriment状况是判凶的，fall则不判凶，其他层面需要具体分析。D、Maltreatment considerations子模块Planets that are maltreated are said to have a harder time bringing about favorable business for the native. 虐待模块分析星体是否被其他星体虐待，如果星体处于虐待模式下，则很难带给良好的事宜给盘主。表中列出了七种最为严重的虐待模式，如凶星在凶宫，如被在凶宫的凶星在星曜战争中击败（这句话的原英文可能有歧义，我有空问问，不要急于对照自己命盘）等等。E、总结由上述分析可见PNA模块的重要性，所以任何分析前要做PNA分析。二、Universal HermeticsA、Universal Hermetics are a group of techniques found in the Hellenistic literature that have to do with looking at the natives life as a whole.  This is the "big picture" view of the life. 点评：UH模块是希腊占星中的一组分析技法，该技法将盘主的总体生命旅程作为整体分析，描绘了人命旅程的总体轮廓和框架。Universal techniques give information about the life as a whole, providing brief thumbnail sketches of the overall conditions of a person’s life. These techniques address to what extent a person’s life will be successful, fortunate, and eminent. 点评：UH模块总体评估盘主是成功的，幸运的还是卓越的或者相反（这三者是不一样的）They also provide a methodology by which to determine which planets have the greatest influence in the life, in terms of being most qualified to set the life agenda and being sufficiently capable to execute that agenda. 点评：UH模块可以分析哪个星体在盘主的生命旅程中具有最大最强烈的影响。Once the planets that support the nativity are determined by the universal techniques, then the Hellenistic astrologer can begin to evaluate how the overall life will turn out based upon the condition of these planets that has been established in the preliminary natal analysis. 一旦支持盘主的星体通过UH模块确定后，希腊占星师就可以评估盘主的总体状况。注：希腊占星中，不是每个星体地位功能都一样的，每个星体都有其使命和功能，有的是支持辅助盘主，有的则试图摧毁盘主。Judgments can be made about just how much success, fortune, and recognition, a person can expect in his or her life. Once the level of eminence, goof fortune and success of the life has been determined, this information provides the basis for predictions as to how specific topics will eventuate.点评：就不点评了，自己看吧。B、航海隐喻（应该是等同于UH模块的，不过可能有偏差，如果多乙光先生知晓请更正）Schmidt says the Ship, the bios, is designed by the Bound Lord of the Pre-Natal Lunation.The owner of the ship (along with a right-hand person or surrogate or political officer) is the Oikodespotes - this position sets the agenda of the ship, the destination, the purpose - and the political officer often goes along for the ride to make sure that these things happenThe captain of the ship, the Kurios, is responsible for overall ship and its journeyThe helmsman (domicile lord of the Ascendant) steers the shipThe lookout or scout (domicile lord of the Lot of Fortune) is responsible for alerting the ship's crew, particularly the helmsan, to upcoming, often unforeseen, conditionsMotivation (i.e. wind - which is the "gasoline" for a sailing ship) comes from the Trigon Lords of the Sect Light.1、在希腊占星中的航海隐喻中，整个生命旅程类似船的航海之旅。a、生命的旅程代表船，出生前新满月点时刻，日月交汇，灵魂和肉体汇合，船被造好，即开始生命之旅。b、Bound Lord of the Pre-Natal Lunation--出生前新满月点的界主代表船的引擎，这艘船能够提供的动力如何（另一种说法是出生前新满月点的界主设计了船）。c、Oikodespotes--即常规古典占星中的Alcocoden，代表船的主人，决定船的目的地、命运，其状况决定盘主在整个生命过程的总体状况，卓越的还是卑微的，从高处跌落的还是从卑微处努力登上山峰。此外hyleg还决定代表生命之船是商船、小船、军舰抑或者是豪华客轮。d、Kurios--Chart almuten代表船长，执行Oikodespotes的命令驾驭船，决定船到达目的是以何种形式到达，是以跌跌撞撞的悲剧形式？还是卓越无比、万人瞩目的风光形式？还是平平凡凡的？e、Domicile lord of the Ascendant--命主代表舵手，执行船长Kurios的命令掌舵，控制人生之旅。f、Domicile lord of the Lot of Fortune--福点守护代表瞭望者，负责提醒所有船务人员到来的危险或者幸运。为什么这么说？What befalls you is indeed shown by the Lot of Fortune - and how you manage that is shown by the Domicile Lord of the Lot of Fortune (who takes the crew position of Lookout on the ship).点评：降落在你身上的不受你控制的事物由福点控制，如何管理应对这些事物，由福点的宫主主导，航海过程中一切未知的事物类似福点，船上的瞭望者则类似福点守护星，警告大家将要或者可能要发生什么，g、Trigon Lords of the Sect Light--得时光体的三分主星，前两个代表汽油或者风，为生命之船提供动力。第三个代表没有风的时候，可利用其划行的浆。2、Planets having a relation to the nativity  Schmidt calls this the "grand logos".  It is like a single statement that can be said the sum up the life of the native.命主，福点的入庙守护，得时光体的三分主星这几颗星体是跟盘主密切相关的星体（很微妙的说法），对这几颗星体的分析就可以简单的概括总结盘主的一生。3、相关阅读a、b、c、4、总结UH模块或者航海隐喻是总体分析盘主的生命旅程的状况的，是总体幸福的还是总体不幸福的，是总体成功的还是平庸无奇的，而且该模块将星体分门别类，比如盘主，比如动力引擎，比如支持资助辅助你的星体。三、Topical MethodsA、Topical methods enable the Hellenistic astrologer to inquire into specific areas of life such as marriage, health, children, finances, profession, parents, friends, siblings, travel, enemies, or rank. Specific determinations can be made as to which of these topics will come about in the person’s life, and if they will be beneficial or problematical.点评：TM模块是将人生的不同领域拆分分析的模块，如分析父母、婚姻、子嗣、福德、财富、格局等等。B、The Hellenistic astrologers would study a particular issue by analyzing the suitable Place (House) involved along with its Lord (Ruler), the appropriate Lot (i.e. Part of Mother, Part of Siblings, etc.), and the planetary significator. Some Hellenistic astrologers, such as Dorotheus, would also consider the Trigon (Triplicity) Lord of the significator to determine motive.点评：希腊占星师分析一个话题（人生的某个特定领域）会通过三个层次分析。1、suitable Place (House)——后天12宫，比如4宫征象家庭生活，父母2、planetary significator——星体的自然征象，比如月亮是母亲的自然征象星3、the appropriate Lot——特点的希腊点（阿拉伯点），比如母亲点Lot of mother所以母亲的话题可以由A、宫位——4-10轴线；B、星体的自然征象——月金；C、阿拉伯点——Lot of mother三个层面分析。C、宫位和星体大家都了解，那就发个Lots的参考日记吧。1、2、3、4、D、topic模块我撰写和跟踪的素材依然不够，以后会慢慢不足的，日记里各种零碎地篇幅就不列了。四、Time LordsA、Time lords represent the last step in the analysis such that if anything is indicated in the natal chart and it is indicated by a planet, then when that planet becomes a time lord, such will come about.  There are many different time lord procedures, some of which are topically specific and some are more dedicated to the overview of the native's life.  点评：时主（大运，星限）分析是占星分析的最后一个阶段，星体被激活（成为时主——time lord),那么该星体征象的事宜、事件将由该星体在星限内带给盘主（无论好的还是坏的）。有很多时主系统，有的针对盘主总体格局，有的针对具体话题的，如婚姻，健康，财富等等。具体的时主系统有：1、Circumambulations2、Decennials3、moon quarters4、129 Years 5、Balbillus time lord6、Profections7、Zodiacal Releasing8、Lunar Monomoiria9、Lunars 9 Yrs Tab 还有Planetary Periods and Ascensional Rising Times of the zodiacal signs等hitting method。这里面我熟悉Zodiacal Releasing、Profections、Circumambulations、Decennials，不过一直没有写相关文章，因为要结合本命分析，有空补上吧。如果你知晓印度占星的dasa，那么希腊占星的这些time lord系统你也必须要了解和掌握。五、其他非system of hermes模块分析技法In addition, there are several relatively self-contained chart-reading systems that were imported from earlier astrological systems, such as the decanic doctrine from the pre-Hermetic period and the doctrine of the twelfth-parts from Babylonian astrology, although these are somewhat vestigial in the later Hellenistic texts.点评：如decan系统，12th-parts系统就不多说了，我也在日记提过，有兴趣的可以看看。六、文章核心内容来源1、——卓越的希腊占星学者Robert Schmidt 2、希腊占星研究学者Demetra George3、——zoidsoft希腊占星学者Robert Schmidt的学生4、douglas noblehorse的文章5、patrick waston6、spear bearer