Ciao

An idea just rushed into my mind that I'd spend all the money that I've saved up for months on the flight tickets to your city. You'd pick me up at the airport and we head back to your place on a fast motorcycle that you'd have borrowed from a friend.I'd not start like how you doing or I missed you so bad, but let's have some fun! We'd make love so passionately in your bedroom meanwhile the computer would play some awesome music... We'd have dinner with your good friends (or just two of us) afterwards, you'd introduce me to them as that I'm your good friend instead of "a girlfriend", since we both really wouldn't care so much about the labels.  Anyways all of us would toast for who knows how many times and the food couldn't be any better.You'd take me to your favourite bar and we get all drunk till middle of the night, but you'd still be a bit more sober to get us safely back home, which would hit the spot! I surely know that you would totally tell me funny stories to get me laugh and I'd have to steal kisses from you, we'd make fun of the street vendors without any offense as usual, and make stupid videos too. We'd get back quite late, sleep in in the next morning and feel very lazy because of the bad hangover, but still happy, then we'd have a delicious and sweet shower together...We'd take a simple tour of the city because it would turn to be snowy everywhere. You'd never lose your spirit for any kind of adventure, or say risk, under any condition, so that we'd successfully sneak through without being caught in some "tourist-must-visit" place that is strongly suggested from the travel handbook, because we'd not think it's worth paying for the expensive tickets... You would do some crazy things with me as well which is way beyond other people's wild imagination or guts, we would enjoy and have so much fun.Then I guess it would be the time that I should leave after having few splendid days with you, you ask me to stay one more day, so I would have done. You'd also suggest me to take a trip around other neighbour countries, but I must go back for the Spring Festival, or maybe just because I'd think I shouldn't stay any longer, but I'd never let you know that.We'd kiss goodbye at the last moment, you'd see me off at the same place without making any promises to each other, such as "wait for me", "I'll call you once you get back", or "I would come back again once I get enough money and time", or "I would definitely hit you up any time soon in the future"... We wouldn't live on commitments like that, because it would be difficult to realise them in reality. We'd both believe that long-distance relationship never works, we even could see that we probably wouldn't call or chat up on the Internet, for our lives need to go on the normal tracks as they are for most of the time, plus our time differences could also be annoying. But at least you and I might still hold a glimmer of hope that maybe this would happen again.It would be easier to do all of it at a time, rather than to let one to buy words like: "I wish I could forget all the responsibilities, school, work and stuff just to be with you, but..." or "I wish I could have had a week off from work, but..."But you never did any of those as a matter of fact.If the story I just wrote would become true, i hope it's gonna be tomorrow. Or, wait a second, have I  forgotten that I just made it?!