Be the Heroin of Your Life, not the Victim.

著名校友Ephron去世了。多謝W，今天才去拜讀她96年畢業典禮的致辭。“我想告訴你們有關於我們那一屆，1962屆的情況。我們1958年跨入校門時，哈佛校報刊登了一則關於女校的評論。這篇評論，不出例外，和其他有關女校的評論一樣，一派胡言。我們那時還是稚氣未脫的女孩子，Wellesley的女孩。這是多久前的事情了，那時Wellesley還因為同性戀而開除了6名學生，那時還有宵禁，那是你帶男孩來還不能關房門，如果你非要關門，那你還得在門把手上套只襪子標記。我們那一屆，375個學生中，只有6個亞裔和5個非洲裔，猶太學生數量也有嚴格控制。學費呢？先是2000美金，後來我大三漲到2250時，我爸媽都快嚇出心臟病了。這是多久以前了。那時如果你要墮胎，那你還得去新澤西州的友聯市，找一個加油站，遞上裝著500美金的信封。然後你就會被蒙上眼睛，在一個汽車旅館接受沒有麻醉的人流。換個輕鬆點的話題，60年代的形態修正課的裸照醜聞，雖然你不敢相信，但紐約時代雜誌的那篇報導是真的。我們當時想都沒想就脫掉了衣服，拍了照，誰也沒去想這整個過程有多荒謬。我們那時還有發音矯正課。他們竟然告訴我說我要矯正我新澤西的口音。這真的夠震驚的，我家在加州，以前壓根沒去過新澤西。那時還有人名字叫Winkie，所有人都留中分。。。我要說的是，哈佛校報那篇不留情面的評論說，Wellesley教育出來的學生，前半生努力找尋人生目標，後半生就用來繁衍後代無所事事，和海裏的小魚沒什麼兩樣。。。那時有人說，我們的大學教育，是給我們不可能擁有的生活做準備。我們註定不可以有未來，我們註定要嫁人。你知道的，校訓有另外一個版本，“不是讓你去做部長，是讓你去做部長太太。”。。。有件事我必須要提，我大三時因為訂了婚考慮轉到Barnard，結果我的dean忠告我，畢業先休息一年，好好打理婚姻生活。。。這簡直不可理喻！浪費一年的時間用了學做家庭主婦！我一度以為Wellesley就是要培養有些家庭主婦的，然而我錯了。同一個dean告訴我朋友，結婚後不要先生孩子，努力工作一年再說。。。可見，Wellesley要培養的，是一個懂得平衡家庭和事業的賢妻。。。很多同學就真的做到了。。。但後來的女權運動，推翻了我們的所以觀點。我們過時了，我們以為對女性的最高標準就是成為成功男士的生命中不可或缺的另一半？可是女權運動，卻讓這些賢妻們發現自己上了當受了騙。最後，這真的很可悲，賢內助們回想起以前，發現大學四年才是最美好的時光。我為什麼要翻出這些陳年舊事？時代改變了不是嗎？沒錯，但我想說的是，美國其實是個固步自封抵制改變的地方。。。當然現在情況不同， 有女醫生女律師，可是男女薪酬的差別還在那裡。。。今年胸托式文胸大肆流行，可是這根本不代表任何女性權利。女性為了爭取每一個權利，付出的代價遠比胸托式文胸大多了。我的意思是，不要被誤導，不要低估現實。有多少人希望時代倒退，讓女性退回原點。大家都會告訴你，當有人污蔑女性時，不要太在意，把握大局就好。但我要說，拜託你，請你在意！你要知道，任何人在指責希拉裏缺乏政治頭腦時，也在指責你。這些人最根本的意思是：沒有大腦的女人，乖乖回到你原來的地方！。。。最重要的是，做你生命中的女英雄，而不要成為生活的犧牲品。。。去實現你的所有夢想。是的我說所有，雖然這會有點艱難，但接受這些挑戰。你的未來絕不會是你想的那樣，但會充滿美好的驚喜。也不要害怕，你隨時可以改變主意。像我，我轉了三次行，換了兩個丈夫。。。我要告訴你，畢業後，你的生活會完全不是你所想，你不再是你，那個一成不變的你。。。不論你做什麼選擇，我希望你不會只成為一個賢妻。我希望你能沖出一些觀念的禁錮，代表所有女性做出一番舉動。現在你人生的第一章落了幕，歡迎來到更精彩的人生！“I want to tell you a little bit about my class, the class of 1962. When we came to Wellesley in the fall of 1958, there was an article in the Harvard Crimson about the women's colleges, one of those stupid mean little articles full of stereotypes, like girls at Bryn Mawr wear black. We were girls then, by the way, Wellesley girls. How long ago was it? It was so long ago that while I was here, Wellesley actually threw six young women out for lesbianism. It was so long ago that we had curfews. It was so long ago that if you had a boy in your room, you had to leave the door open six inches, and if you closed the door you had to put a sock on the doorknob. In my class of, I don't know, maybe 375 young women, there were six Asians and 5 Blacks. There was a strict quota on the number of Jews. Tuition was $2,000 a year and in my junior year it was raised to $2,250 and my parents practically had a heart attack.How long ago? If you needed an abortion, you drove to a gas station in Union, New Jersey with $500 in cash in an envelope and you were taken, blindfolded, to a motel room and operated on without an anesthetic. On the lighter side, and as you no doubt read in the New York Times magazine, and were flabbergasted to learn, there were the posture pictures. We not only took off most of our clothes to have our posture pictures taken, we took them off without ever even thinking, this is weird, why are we doing this? -- not only that, we had also had speech therapy -- I was told I had a New Jersey accent I really ought to do something about, which was a shock to me since I was from Beverly Hills, California and had never set foot in the state of New Jersey... not only that, we were required to take a course called Fundamentals, Fundies, where we actually were taught how to get in and out of the back seat of the car. Some of us were named things like Winkie. We all parted our hair in the middle. How long ago was it? It was so long ago that among the things that I honestly cannot conceive of life without, that had not yet been invented: panty hose, lattes, Advil, pasta (there was no pasta then, there was only spaghetti and macaroni) -- I sit here writing this speech on a computer next to a touch tone phone with an answering machine and a Rolodex, there are several CD's on my desk, a bottle of Snapple, there are felt-tip pens and an electric pencil sharpener... well, you get the point, it was a long time ago.Anyway, as I was saying, the Crimson had this snippy article which said that Wellesley was a school for tunicata -- tunicata apparently being small fish who spend the first part of their lives frantically swimming around the ocean floor exploring their environment, and the second part of their lives just lying there breeding. It was mean and snippy, but it had the horrible ring of truth, it was one of those do-not-ask-for-whom-the-bell-tolls things, and it burned itself into our brains. Years later, at my 25th reunion, one of my classmates mentioned it, and everyone remembered what tunacata were, word for word.My class went to college in the era when you got a masters degrees in teaching because it was "something to fall back on" in the worst case scenario, the worst case scenario being that no one married you and you actually had to go to work. As this same classmate said at our reunion, "Our education was a dress rehearsal for a life we never led." Isn't that the saddest line? We weren't meant to have futures, we were meant to marry them. We weren't' meant to have politics, or careers that mattered, or opinions, or lives; we were meant to marry them. If you wanted to be an architect, you married an architect. Non Ministrare sed Ministrari -- you know the old joke, not to be ministers but to be ministers' wives.I've written about my years at Wellesley, and I don't want to repeat myself any more than is necessary. But I do want to retell one anecdote from the piece I did about my 10th Wellesley reunion. I'll tell it a little differently for those of you who read it. Which was that, during my junior year, when I was engaged for a very short period of time, I thought I might transfer to Barnard my senior year. I went to see my class dean and she said to me, "Let me give you some advice. You've worked so hard at Wellesley, when you marry, take a year off. Devote yourself to your husband and your marriage." Of course it was stunning piece of advice to give me because I'd always intended to work after college. My mother was a career women, and all of us, her four daughters, grew up understanding that the question, "What do you want to be when you grow up?" was as valid for girls as for boys. Take a year off being a wife. I always wondered what I was supposed to do in that year. Iron? I repeated the story for years, as proof that Wellesley wanted its graduates to be merely housewives. But I turned out to be wrong, because years later I met another Wellesley graduate who had been as hell-bent on domesticity as I had been on a career. And she had gone to the same dean with the same problem, and the dean had said to her, "Don't have children right away. Take a year to work." And so I saw that what Wellesley wanted was for us to avoid the extremes. To be instead, that thing in the middle. A lady. We were to take the fabulous education we had received here and use it to preside at dinner table or at a committee meeting, and when two people disagreed we would be intelligent enough to step in and point out the remarkable similarities between their two opposing positions. We were to spend our lives making nice.Many of my classmates did exactly what they were supposed to when they graduated from Wellesley, and some of them, by the way, lived happily ever after. But many of them didn't. All sorts of things happened that no one expected. They needed money so they had to work. They got divorced so they had to work. They were bored witless so they had to work. The women's movement came along and made harsh value judgments about their lives -- judgments that caught them by surprise, because they were doing what they were supposed to be doing, weren't they? The rules had changed, they were caught in some kind of strange time warp. They had never intended to be the heroines of their own lives, they'd intended to be -- what? -- First Ladies, I guess, first ladies in the lives of big men. They ended up feeling like victims. They ended up, and this is really sad, thinking that their years in college were the best years of their lives.Why am I telling you this? It was a long time ago, right? Things have changed, haven't they? Yes, they have. But I mention it because I want to remind you of the undertow, of the specific gravity. American society has a remarkable ability to resist change, or to take whatever change has taken place and attempt to make it go away. Things are different for you than they were for us. Just the fact that you chose to come to a single-sex college makes you smarter than we were -- we came because it's what you did in those days -- and the college you are graduating from is a very different place. All sorts of things caused Wellesley to change, but it did change, and today it's a place that understands its obligations to women in today's world. The women's movement has made a huge difference, too, particularly for young women like you. There are women doctors and women lawyers. There are anchorwomen, although most of them are blonde. But at the same time, the pay differential between men and women has barely changed. In my business, the movie business, there are many more women directors, but it's just as hard to make a movie about women as it ever was, and look at the parts the Oscar-nominated actresses played this year: hooker, hooker, hooker, hooker, and nun. It's 1996, and you are graduating from Wellesley in the Year of the Wonderbra. The Wonderbra is not a step forward for women. Nothing that hurts that much is a step forward for women.What I'm saying is, don't delude yourself that the powerful cultural values that wrecked the lives of so many of my classmates have vanished from the earth. Don't let the New York Times article about the brilliant success of Wellesley graduates in the business world fool you -- there's still a glass ceiling. Don't let the number of women in the work force trick you -- there are still lots of magazines devoted almost exclusively to making perfect casseroles and turning various things into tents.Don't underestimate how much antagonism there is toward women and how many people wish we could turn the clock back. One of the things people always say to you if you get upset is, don't take it personally, but listen hard to what's going on and, please, I beg you, take it personally. Understand: every attack on Hillary Clinton for not knowing her place is an attack on you. Underneath almost all those attacks are the words: get back, get back to where you once belonged. When Elizabeth Dole pretends that she isn't serious about her career, that is an attack on you. The acquittal of O.J. Simpson is an attack on you. Any move to limit abortion rights is an attack on you -- whether or not you believe in abortion. The fact that Clarence Thomas is sitting on the Supreme Court today is an attack on you.Above all, be the heroine of your life, not the victim. Because you don't have the alibi my class had -- this is one of the great achievements and mixed blessings you inherit: unlike us, you can't say nobody told you there were other options. Your education is a dress rehearsal for a life that is yours to lead. Twenty-five years from now, you won't have as easy a time making excuses as my class did. You won't be able to blame the deans, or the culture, or anyone else: you will have no one to blame but yourselves. Whoa.So what are you going to do? This is the season when a clutch of successful women -- who have it all -- give speeches to women like you and say, to be perfectly honest, you can't have it all. Maybe young women don't wonder whether they can have it all any longer, but in case of you are wondering, of course you can have it all. What are you going to do? Everything, is my guess. It will be a little messy, but embrace the mess. It will be complicated, but rejoice in the complications. It will not be anything like what you think it will be like, but surprises are good for you. And don't be frightened: you can always change your mind. I know: I've had four careers and three husbands. And this is something else I want to tell you, one of the hundreds of things I didn't know when I was sitting here so many years ago: you are not going to be you, fixed and immutable you, forever. We have a game we play when we're waiting for tables in restaurants, where you have to write the five things that describe yourself on a piece of paper. When I was your age, I would have put: ambitious, Wellesley graduate, daughter, Democrat, single. Ten years later not one of those five things turned up on my list. I was: journalist, feminist, New Yorker, divorced, funny. Today not one of those five things turns up in my list: writer, director, mother, sister, happy. Whatever those five things are for you today, they won't make the list in ten years -- not that you still won't be some of those things, but they won't be the five most important things about you. Which is one of the most delicious things available to women, and more particularly to women than to men. I think. It's slightly easier for us to shift, to change our minds, to take another path. Yogi Berra, the former New York Yankee who made a specialty of saying things that were famously maladroit, quoted himself at a recent commencement speech he gave. "When you see a fork in the road," he said, "take it." Yes, it's supposed to be a joke, but as someone said in a movie I made, don't laugh this is my life, this is the life many women lead: two paths diverge in a wood, and we get to take them both. It's another of the nicest things about being women; we can do that. Did I say it was hard? Yes, but let me say it again so that none of you can ever say the words, nobody said it was so hard. But it's also incredibly interesting. You are so lucky to have that life as an option.Whatever you choose, however many roads you travel, I hope that you choose not to be a lady. I hope you will find some way to break the rules and make a little trouble out there. And I also hope that you will choose to make some of that trouble on behalf of women. Thank you. Good luck. The first act of your life is over. Welcome to the best years of your lives.