Common Law Fanfics Rec travis/wes

主要是Kinkmeme的追文文好少i have issue i need help T-TGo On, Take a Look at Your FaceBecause Wes's car is damaged, Travis gives him a ride to work (and crime scenes) on his motorcycle. Gen, pre-slash or slash, please. 稍微WES有点OOC 不过挺甜的 虽然是PRE-SLASHCuddle-bugLike the title says, I want them to cuddle and be all snuggly. Preferably after some crazy fierce sex. Just sayin'.这个超级无敌萌啊啊太萌了太萌了结尾也好萌中间也好萌心软的WES好可爱想要CUDDLE的TRAVIS也好可爱when you touch me, my mind is goneWes tends to complain a lot when he's on the bottom during sex, so Travis makes it his goal to give him so much pleasure he can't talk any more, let alone complain.肉文，travis/wes 可惜前戏没写完就没戏了= =算坑了吗…Titration Wes has been acting really uptight lately, so Travis decides to take away his precious control. (In the porniest way possible) No non-con please未完，作者说没弃。TRAVIS/WES。肉。Het-sex mentioned (Past!WesxAlex), Asphyxiation, Bondage, Barebacking, Profanity, Gagging, Rimming, Dirty Talk, Milking/Edging, Hair-pulling, mild Pain-play, Biting/Marking, Threatened Fisting 其实就是TRAVIS帮WES放松！What Happens in VegasTravis and Wes go for some reason. Maybe after they find whoever it is they need to find, Travis wants to stay a little while to celebrate, but Wes is more professional about it. Travis teases him about he can't have any fun, etc, etc, and ropes him into drinking + gambling. They wake up the next morning...married.还不错，以GROUP THERAPY的形式写了出来，WES好WES哦！还算PRE-SLASHTravis/Wes; panic attackWes works himself up into a panic attack and Travis has to try and calm him downFILL的一般 WES panic attack的理由也太奇怪了吧因为酒店被烧了…然后他没地方回去…TRAVIS就告白了…就把人带回家了…Count It On One HandFive times Wes saves Travis from a most certainly death and one with Travis saving Wes.未完。还不错，又是group therapy形式，WES一直没完没了地说！The Barista BluesWes as high-powered district attorney, Travis as laid back barrista/singer-songwriter. 未完，TRAVIS还挺适合做咖啡师耶！这篇还行吧，就是有点僵，发展好慢，更也好慢…Let's Try This AgainHarvey Spencer strolls into LA to check up (and possibly more) on former associate Wes except Travis' is doing a spectacular job of keeping them from being alone.一般吧！最后就一起了！奸诈的HARVEY！小麦酱油。0707The deal I wanna see Travis rimming the hell out of Wes. Like, Wes is squirming and mewling and a complete and oversensitive wreck(it's rimming porn but not really that hot? the first chap is ok. the actual rimming part is quite boring. Travis/Wes)Reach gen, rated R, WARNING: suicide of an OC, some violence, Wes OCD(Wes cant stop washing his hands after a bad case, Travis is there for him. this is quite a good fic on writing about the OCD, how Wes knows he should stop but he just cant. Travis is so nice.)Two by Two [TW: Childhood sexual abuse, rape and murder of a child]Wes being abused in childhood and how Travis find out(WIP. This fic is beautifully and well written. Wes is so OCD and exhausted. It's very dramatic and Wes-center but Travis will be there for him.)When I Think About You (Travis/Wes pre-slash, masturbation) - NC-17(GOOD FIC!!!! Travis came into Wes' room when he's masturbating and about to come, instead of stop, Wes just came when Travis is talking shit)The kiss(detailed kiss. pining Travis into the wall and kiss him!Wes is so charming! lovely fic)Nice And Slow (Travis/Wes, blowing)(Travis blowing Wes against a wall. It's ok.)Support. Travis+Wes [Gen] [MAJOR Spoilers: 1x05]so-so. Non-slash. Travis notices that Wes has no friends so he wants to make up for it. Buddy fic.I Walk a Lonely RoadWes has never really had anyone in his life, and the current low point in his life is not helping him got over the fact that he is so damn lonely.(he's so lonely and he passed out.= =really! wes...you're better than this)It was a Hard Enough LifeA run in with his father has Wes spinning out of control as the childhood he worked so hard to bury was starting to surface again.(sequal to I Walk a Lonely Road. this is getting annoying. i should stop. so many troubled-Wes and Travis is just nothing. BORING!)0708Wind in Dry Grass Travis/Wes; Wes is kidnapped, sensory-deprivation, coping mechanisms.When they get him out, Wes can't stand to be alone, and Travis can't bear to let him out of his sight. How they manage to vocalize that, though, is a very different matter.(WIP)WHITE COLLAR CROSS 有NEAL和MOS。WES因为他们被坏人抓了，不过NEAL还是好人吧。到12就有点OOC了…WES快要崩溃。TRAVIS还在努力找他…想看被救了之后的啦Just a HeadacheWes偏头痛，Travis载他回酒店。pre-slash。就这样吧挺无聊的……The Way to a Man's HeartWes is a stress baker. A stress baker in the closet.哈哈哈WES开做甜点可是不想让人知道。TRAVIS还是发现了。从WES还和ALEX在一起直到两人分开。最后WES带着做的派去找了RAVIS。Busybodies and Blushing BisexualsGen. Travis + Wes. Travis is heterosexual, Wes is not. I'd like Travis to find out and be overly protective and obnoxious because now he wants to find Wes a good boyfriend. 不错 有点点OOC