25岁前杂想

待编辑。25岁将至。Everybody says 25 is different.这几天突然收到几封老朋友的邮件：1. Genny and Ingo. 他们是我的第一个host, 在巴塞罗那时住在他们离圣家堂两个街区的家里。Ingo是德国人。Genny是在欧洲生活多年的厄瓜多尔人。我见到他们时两人还没有结婚却共同抚养着Genny和前夫的两个孩子，孩子们在英国出生，孩子们的爸爸是法国人。而现在他们从巴塞罗那搬到了厄瓜多尔，结了婚，定了居，经营了一家有机农场还生了一个孩子。她写信给我：Ingo is doing well, our girls are becoming teenagers (uh oh!)and we have little Laia who is now 1,5 years old and runs around all day.Ingo很好，闺女们进入了青春期（啊哦）我们的小宝贝Laia一岁半了每天到处乱跑。And... we moved to a big jungle farm in the coffee area of Ecuador. There is no power, we have water from a stream a few hectares of land for plantations and animals, and many many more hectares of cloud forest to enjoy.我们搬到了一个厄瓜多尔咖啡种植区的丛林农场，这里没有电，我们有溪水，几公顷的种植区和家畜，还能享受更多公顷的雨林。2. Sabrina和Gilles.Sabrina和Gilles是法国人，Sabrina十五岁时就决定以后自己要在中国生活。8年前她去了香港为一家公司工作，有一天她问她的老板她可不可以去北京工作，她老板说，我们在北京没有分公司，Sabrina说，那就让我来开一家。7年前她来了北京。直到今天，并且决定在北京继续生活下去。异地多年后她的丈夫也来到的北京。她是中国迷但是她的丈夫不是，可是为了她他还是义无反顾地来了中国。她写信给我：we moved to another place, we opened our showroom, we're gonna have a little dragon on December, we're still in love after all these years and... i think that's all.我们搬了家，我们开了我们的展厅，我们12月要生一个龙宝宝，我们这么多年后仍然彼此相爱，我想，就是这些了。3. Liz是我在Ithaca的朋友，刚刚怀上了她期待已久的baby #3.在我理智结束一段短暂的感情后，Liz的信：Hi Luna, I wanted to follow up on your email from the other day. I was relieved to have read your thoughts about your state of mind, first, because it helped me to realize that you were going to be ok. I was a little concerned because you had mentioned that you're struggling with Ithaca and school a bit, and I was hoping the distraction of having a friend elsewhere would help to take your focus off Ithaca and keep it on just getting your work done and then meeting up with him in NYC or talking with him everyday. So, in short I was relieved that you felt you made the right decision and you trusted your heart. Second, I was also inspired and touched by what you wrote. I felt happy for you that even though last year posed its challenges to you, you were able to seize the opportunity and allow your spirit to continue to evolve from it. The fact that you are able to say that you can fully love others without being in a relationship is remarkable. So many people strive for that all their life and you've reached that point at a relatively young age. Further your ability to fully love yourself is inspiring. This too is something many people strive to do all their lives, including me. I'm getting much better but I still have a road ahead of me. I consider it a triumph just to have reached an awareness of how important this is, and how one cannot ever love someone else to the deepest of their capacity without loving oneself--not in an egotistical way, but in a way that honors your spirit, that is forgiving and accepting. Since I met you, I always intuitively knew that you were an evolved soul and that's why I've always found you such a joy to spend time with. Someday you'll find a person who you'll find has the gift to bring out the best in you and you'll do the same for them. You'll inspire one another in such a way that adds such an interesting and pleasurable dimension to your life. Not like you're incomplete WITHOUT them, just that your life is enhanced with them. That's when you know this person is a special gift to your life. Those are the people worth committing to. In the coming weeks i hope you'll be so busy that your mind will be preoccupied. I can appreciate how coming from a big city you may feel suffocated here with its smallness, it's lack of the complexity that you find in the city, the hustle and bustle. I try to put myself in your shoes because I would feel suffocated in the city. I have to have space and slowness and simplicity or I feel overstimulated. Everything blends together and loses meaning. I feel for you. Let me know if there's anything I can do to help. Can't wait to meet you for lunch tomorrow!xoxo,Liz感觉她是真真切切地描述了我需要的那个人，或是我需要的感情：Someday you'll find a person who you'll find has the gift to bring out the best in you and you'll do the same for them.终有一天你会遇到那个能够让你展现最好的自己的那个人，你对他也是一样。（那是彼此的天分）You'll inspire one another in such a way that adds such an interesting and pleasurable dimension to your life. 你们会彼此给对方的生活添加趣味和愉悦维度。Not like you're incomplete WITHOUT them, just that your life is enhanced with them. 并不是说你的生活没了他就不完整，而仅仅是有了他你会更加强大。That's when you know this person is a special gift to your life. 那时你会领悟这个人是生活给你的特殊的礼物。Those are the people worth committing to. 这样的人是值得承诺与付出的人。是的，他们的故事让我相信爱情的存在。