家庭暴力中的因缘果报—— 回复网友PPeng的评论

胡涂医2011年3月22日网友PPeng在她的新文章Karma, domestic violence, and a therapist in between 里提出了作为一位在美国执业的心理治疗师的解决方案，但对家庭暴力中的“因果”有些疑惑，我回了她一份评论，今天再去看，发现新浪还真不支持英文评论，好好一份评论被贴得支离破碎。干脆搬来自己博客里，同时回答她的新问题，如何对不信轮回的人解释因果。英文不好的同志们要委屈一下了，我发评论的时候用的是英文，回过头去看，觉得要翻译回中文还真费劲。干脆继续用英文吧，阿弥陀佛。下面是博友在评论中的翻译 ：实际上，中国人对因果一说并不陌生。在中国有句老话叫：“善有善报，恶有恶报，不是不报，时候未到。”即使是在当今社会，人们也经常会用到这句话。从表面上看，中国人似乎都熟知这个道理，可实际上，最为佛教理念之一的因果一说却最容易被大家所误解。有的朋友曾问我说：“老胡，我现在改吃素了，为什么我还是生病？”或是“我现在改吃素了，为什么还做不到顿悟？”——吃素并不代表就一定会身体健康，或是助你顿悟修道。我经常这样回答他们：“牛和羊也吃素，它们也是素食主义者，难道它们一辈子都不生病吗？难道它们这样就会顿悟了？”因果，即原因和结果，任何人都会受到这一定律的制约，然而只有善因才能结出善果。人们通常不能充分理解因果一说。有些人很善良，也经常做善事，可往往也是这样的人生活地更悲惨不幸一些。可是那些根本不做什么善事的人，却总是活的逍遥自在，舒舒服服。正因如此，人们便说因果定律根本不切实际。事实上，因果定律按成熟时间可划分为三种情况（1）因果定律作用在今世（2）因果定律作用在来生（3）因果定律作用在更遥远的轮回我想大家或多或少都会相信有轮回转世一说因果定律作用在今世即原因和结果，任何人即意味着你今世做的因将会在今世得到果。因果定律作用在来生，意味着你今世做的因将会在下一世得到果。因果定律作用在更遥远的轮回，则意味着你今世做的因将会在下下世或更久以后才会得到果。从时间的角度，我们可以清楚的知道无论是在过去，现在还是在未来，任何动作的结果都不会凭空消失，而之所以结果来的时间不同则主要有以下两点原因：1. 因的力度有强弱！就拿西瓜和苹果的种子来说吧，如果同时种植这两样水果，那你今年是肯定能得到西瓜的，可是，可是要想收获苹果，恐怕还要等上几年。2. 在因果循环过程中，也需要一定的促成条件！如果所有的条件都具备了，那么水果自然会提前成熟，若条件欠缺，那么水果要成熟则需要更长的一段时间。在PPeng提出的家庭暴力案件中，那位在美国执业的心理治疗师所提出的方法其实是加速恶果成熟的方法——求助于强有力的法律保护异或向他人寻求帮助，这都会加速恶果的到来。在面对家庭暴力时，人们当然可以诉诸法律，甚至也可以找像PPeng这样的专家寻求帮助。然而她的疑惑是：怎么样解释成熟缓慢的“果”？比如说如何向那些一点也不相信轮回转世的人去解释前世的因，今世的果这样的问题？其实，象这样的人解释因果一说并非那么困难。在当今世界，有的是人作恶犯法，有的会被立即逮捕，有的可能会过一段时间才会被送进监狱，更有甚至，一辈子就这么逍遥自在的过去了。这样来看，貌似也就没有什么意义再去探求什么前世来生了。那些相信科学的人可能不太能接受像转世这样的理论，毕竟我们也仅仅只能说明有前世和来生。可是，现代科学就连这两点也无法解答。现代科学家们认为时间只是基于人类世界而言的，宇宙中光速最快。爱因斯坦就认为宇宙中没有比光速还快的东西了；然而霍金却不这样认为。有些不能用经典物理学解决的问题完全可以用量子物理学去解决。科学也是建立在假设与猜想的基础之上的，可是人们却总是忘记这一点。当我为转世一说辩解时，我会提出这样一个问题：你们相信爱情么？大部分人都说相信，因为他们觉得世上至少会有一个人是爱他们的，也许是他们的父母，也许是他们的爱人，也许是他孩子。但我们到哪去找我们的爱呢？无论对人体做多么缜密的检查分析，科学家也无法回答这一问题。可我们依然相信真爱的存在，不是么？好，下面我们来看看关于家庭暴力中那些相关的解决之道。如果种植得当，且阳光水分充足，一粒苹果的种子得需要几年才能开花结果。这就如同我们的人生。如果我们不想在家庭中种下恶果，除了咨询PPeng，最有效的方法就是调节家庭关系，氛围，使之和谐。要去鼓励，而不是打击，要去加油，而不是泄气，要使生活变得方便舒适，而不是杂乱烦扰……你一定要尽可能的给家里提供肥沃的土壤，使种子能够健康成长。当然，这需要全家总动员，可我们更需要以身作则，从自我做起。释迦摩尼告诫他的弟子们不要一味的牢记他的佛理，还需要仔仔细细的检验这些教义，将这些道理运用到生活当中。现代社会那些在科学的树荫下长大的孩子们很难接受像因果一说这样的理念。在科学的影响下，我们很难学接受新的东西。假设我们什么都不知道，然后去实践所学到的知识才是一项明智之举。相信因果轮回并不是说我们就一定会生活在其影响下，毫无出路。每当我们解释我们的现状时我们就会往前去找我们的因，但这并不表明我们现在不能凭自己的意愿，为善果而做善因。希望大家多多行善，善有善报，阿弥陀佛。附录：这个是存在手机内存里的，胡涂医回答的一个博客评论，问题当时没有复制。这个问题还真不好回答。答案是：既“可以”又“不可以”！可以——是因为你必须积累足够的善业来转化它。如果你往菜汤里放多了盐（这个“盐”字最近好像好热门：），你得立即停止继续放盐，而且得有足够的清水来稀释它，才不会太咸。不可以——是因为“有因必有果”！盐分不会因为你往咸汤里多加水就消失，就算你加入再多的水去稀释，你喝进肚子里的盐分还是那么多的。所谓“覆水难收”，就算有时间机器可载你回到过去，你也只能做个旁观者而无法再“插手”改变过去（请参阅我前面《阴阳他说》系列文所以佛门有句话叫“菩萨畏因，众生畏果。” 因果律其实是告诉我们，命运可以靠我们自己去努力，知命才能立命。希望大家多多往自己那碗已经发咸的汤里多多放进清水。——英原文：Indeed, Karma is widely known among the Chinese community. The old Chinese saying "Good begets good and bad begets bad, all causes will give rises to results,  it's just a matter of time" is repeatedly mentioned by virtually all Chinese. Seems we Chinese fellows all know Karma, but Karma is the Buddhism concept that is mostly misunderstood! Some of my friends often ask me:"Hey Hu, I am a vegetarian now, why am I still sick? or, why am I still not enlightened?" - Being a vegetarian does NOT mean that one can be healthy, nor will it guarantee any enlightment. I often answer those guys:"look at the cows and sheep, they are also vegetarians, aren't they sick as well? Do they all get enlightened?"  The word "Karma" means Cause & Effect, and no one is exempt from the Law of Cause and Effect, but only a Right cause could result in a Right effect. Often, there are those who do not fully understand the Law of Cause and Effect. They usually see that some people who have been kind and have done  wholesome deeds experience much suffering and misfortune, while those who have committed unwholesome deeds, on the other hand, nonetheless lead a comfortable and high quality life. So they easily conclude that the Law of Cause and Effect does not apply at all.  As a matter of fact, Karma can be categorized according to the time at which it ripens. There are 3 such categories:1) Karma that ripens in this life.2) Karma that ripens in the next life 3) Karma that ripens in future lives.  Well, you got to believe in such a thing called reincarnation:)Karma that ripens in this life means that the "fruit" of the action done in this life will ripen in this very life, karma that ripens in the next life means that the fruit of the action done in this life will ripen in the immediate next life, and karma that ripens in future lives means that the fruit of present actions will ripen after two or even more lives. This clearly indicates that from the viewpoint of TIME, whether it is the past, present or future, the effect of any action will not be lost.  The reasons why the fruit will ripen at different times are the following:1) The strength of the cause! Say, a watermelon seed and an apple seed are planted at the same time, the watermelon seed will grow and produce watermelon (the fruit) in the same year, while it will take an apple seed several years before the apple tree from a seed can produce an apple. 2) The 2nd reason why the fruit of karma may ripen at different times is due to the strength of the conditions - either strong or weak. Should all necessary conditions be present, the fruit will ripen earlier, whereas if the necessary conditions are NOT present, the ripening will take longer. In PPeng's case of the family violence, the way she as a US based therapist stated is the efficient way to "ripen" the fruit of the misconducts - where strong legal protection is implementable and reinforcement is guaranteed, it certainly "shortens" the time for the effects to rise. So it is advisable to take legal actions in any domestic violence, and surely wise to get help from professionals like her.Now her "difficult question" is: how to explain a "slow ripen" karma, let's say a cause from past life but the effect is in this life, to someone who does not believe in reincarnation?In fact, this is not so hard to explain to the non-reincarnation believer. In this world, there are tons of people breaching the laws every day, some will be caught right away, some will be put into the jail in a much later day,and some even will never been found out in this whole life. We even don't need to look into past or future lives, uh?The "scientific-minded" ones might have difficulties in accepting such concept like reincarnation, as we can merely prove the Past and Future. Well, both past and future are two major issues modern science can never solve, as Time only travels in the world where the maximum speed in the universe is believed to be the light. Albert Einstein, for example, didn't believe there would be anything that can travel faster than light, while Stephen Hawking,however,acknowledges that there are things moving faster than the speed of the light. Those Mission Impossible in classical physics world is totally possible under the Quantum mechanics. People often forget that science is also based on some hypothetical or doubtful basis. When I am in the position to defense reincarnation, I often ask people: do you believe in love? The answer I get is always positive - at least one loves her/his kids/ parents. But where do we find love? Science can never find love within our bodies, no matter how "detailed" a body is dissected, but we all believe that there is such a thing called love existing, right? ：）Okay, now some food for thoughts concerning the existing domestic violence. An apple seed needs several years to produce a fresh new apple if it is planted in the right place, with adequate water and sun, etc. Same is true for our family life. If we do not want to create bad karma within our families, the effective way,apart from seeing therapist like PPeng^_^, is to harmonized the atmosphere of the family. Give encouragement rather than discouragement, give confidence instead of fear, give convenience and avoid disturbing... provide the soil for the seed to healthily grow. Of course, it requires efforts from all family members, but we can always start from our own.The Buddha himself exhorted his disciples not to believe in his teachings merely he was their teacher, but to examine the teachings carefully and test them against their own practice. We "scientifically trained" guys today always have a hard time accepting such concepts like Karma in light of the so-called modern science, what we learned in the past often prevents us from learning more, it is always wise to pretend that we know nothing and practice what we learned. Believing in Karma (and reincarnation) does NOT mean that we are then doomed to live within the "influences" with no way out. It is true that what explains our current situation MIGHT refer back to our Karmas, but that does NOT mean that we have no free will to shape up our own "causes" for our future better "effects".May all of us enjoy good karma! Amitabha:)