Cotten was the actor's actor in a dazzling career

Cotten was the actor's actor in a dazzling careerBy JIM BAWDENof TheColumnists.com The first time Orson Welles' "The Magnificent Ambersons" was shown on Canadian TV in 1960, I stayed up half the night to watch it. Though it wasn't easy for me to get up the following morning for my eighth grade class, it was an experience I soon had to get used to because Welles' "Citizen Kane," another "must see" movie, ran not long afterward on late night Canadian TV.Those two classic films really made me appreciate the particular talents of Joseph Cotten, who starred in the two Welles masterpieces. But then I also saw him in "Gaslight," "Portrait of Jennie," "Since You Went Away" and "I’ll Be Seeing You" in rapid succession on late night TV.In fact, I don't think I actually saw Joseph Cotten on the big screen of a movie theater until 1964 when "Hush, Hush, Sweet Charlotte" opened at Toronto’s Hollywood cinema.Then, the following year, I saw Cotten in person at a matinee performance of the short-lived play "Calculated Risk," co-starring with his wife, actress Patricia Medina, at the Royal Alexandra theater. That confirmed one fact in my mind: He was a masterful theater actor as well as one of Hollywood's most versatile leading men, capable of playing romantic leads ("The Farmer's Daughter"), villains ("Shadow of A Doubt") or heroes ("The Third Man") with equal success.Fifteen years later, in 1980, I wrote my final article for The Hamilton Spectator before moving on to The Toronto Star. It was a profile of Cotten, based on my interview with him at his Beverly Hills apartment. I remember how that afternoon stretched into the evening as the then 75-year-old Cotten chatted on about his lengthy career as Hollywood’s most dependable leading man.Here are highlights of our conversation that day 32 years ago:BAWDEN: Did you always think of a life in movies?COTTEN: Never! My parents were well-to-do Southerners. I grew up in Petersburg, Virginia. I was born there in 1905, the oldest of three brothers. But I always wanted to act--of course, on stage and not in the flickers. I studied acting at the School of Expression in Washington but no offers came. So, I moved to Miami and was the freelance drama critic for The Washington Herald from 1926 to 1928. I had other side jobs to keep me going while I acted in amateur stock. By 1930 I’d made my Broadway debut but right then the Depression killed off Broadway as a viable option, so I tried to get as many radio gigs as possible. I’d married in 1931 and I felt any experience was all right.BAWDEN: Don’t you think it strange you made your movie debut in probably the best American movie of all time …"Citizen Kane" (1941)?COTTEN: But I didn’t. It was my second movie.BAWDEN: So what was your first then?COTTEN: "The Philadelphia Story." I can see your eyebrows lifting. I’m not in the MGM movie that was released. But I’m in the first one MGM made. Let me explain. Metro bought the rights (to the play) from Katharine Hepburn and decided to film it several times right through and edit that into a movie version. So, they rented out our Broadway theater for two performances, had an invited audience and the cameras rolled. That way they could get an understanding of how the story flowed. And it made for a better final movie with Hepburn, (Cary) Grant and (James) Stewart because much of the dialogue was cut down by Don Stewart and he also completely eliminated the role of Tracy’s brother. I was C. K. Dexter Haven, replaced by a guy named Cary Grant. And Van Heflin was the reporter replaced by Jimmy Stewart. The photographer, Liz Imbrie, was Shirley Booth, replaced by Ruth Hussey. MGM told me my version is still somewhere in the vaults but legally cannot be shown.BAWDEN: You told me on the phone you had a story about "Philadelphia Story" opening in Toronto.COTTEN. That’s right. After Kath made the releasable movie in L.A. she had a contract to tour for six months in the Broadway play. We opened on the road in Toronto at your Royal Alex theater. A packed house. But after the first act, no laughs. Same response during the second. Kath was storming about backstage hollering, “We’ve got a flop, we have!” I couldn’t understand it. The audience was attentive, nobody left during intermission. Then a stagehand politely whispered in my ear, “Sir, Canada is at war. We’re at war!” And that explained it. Canada was at war starting in September, 1939. A year later and Americans were still enjoying a false peace. Canadians liked the play but the audience’s minds were thinking about other things by then–like the Allied rout at Dunkirk.BAWDEN: How did you meet Orson Welles?COTTEN: It was about time. I was “only” 35! I’d originally met Orson Welles in the mid-Thirties when CBS had a producer on Madison Avenue, Knowles Entrekin, and I was in his office with Orson and Orson dumped his pipe into the waste paper basket and set it on fire. Now that’s one way of getting known. He was a boy of 21 or 22. I had started going to auditions for radio shows in New York and met him while he was also auditioning. Days later we were rehearsing a play for "School of the Air" and the line “barrels and barrels of pith” caused me, Orson and fellow actor Ray Collins to continually double up in laughter, And Knowles became very red-faced with anger and almost, but not quite, fired us.But when Orson founded the Mercury Theater in 1937, he asked for me to come on board. His first production was a modern dress version of "Julius Caesar," mounted for $5,000. I’d been in such flops as "Jezebel" with Miriam Hopkins and "The Postman Always Rings Twice" with Dick Barthlemess. Orson saw me in both, told me I’d never be a good actor, but with my curly hair I’d have to get by as a star.BAWDEN: Did you get to play in "Citizen Kane" through your connection with Welles then?COTTEN: No, I was brought out to Hollywood by my agent, Leland Hayward, and trotted around to the studios, all of whom turned me down. I was at RKO, so I dropped in to say "hi" to Orson and he hired me on the spot as Jededia Leland. The name was a combination of Jed Harris and Leland Hayward. Ray Collins, Everett Sloane, Paul Stewart and George Coulouris had already been set. The script was still being written by Orson and Herman Mankiewicz out at the Mankiewicz home. Orson said he’d already wasted six months on a script for "Heart of Darkness" that RKO turned down.BAWDEN: But when did shooting begin?COTTEN: In August, 1940. I just hung around for weeks, not even getting paid, listening to the fantastic stories Orson and Herman were dreaming up. I was in a wheelchair in my first scene as an old man. I hadn’t seen a finished script until one was presented to me at 7 p.m. I was told to report to make up at 4 a.m. for a rubber mask to be applied. I’d already had an assortment of wigs made for me. At 9 a.m., the buzzers sounded and Orson was in a wheelchair, too, after spraining an ankle at tennis. We went out to a sanitarium, I’m an old senile coot reminiscing about the glory days. "Citizen Kane" had begun! Gregg Toland (the cinematographer) said to start the cameras and that was that.BAWDEN: Did anybody know they were doing a film that would hailed as the best ever made in America?COTTEN: Nope. Certainly not me. That first day we shot until 6.30 the next morning. Then it was all junked because my wig wasn’t right. Orson would say, “This is what I want to achieve here” and Gregg would nod and go off and make magic or Herman would trot to a corner to cook up a rewrite. It cost well under $1 million, less than budget. Completely on time. What Orson hadn’t reckoned on was the enormous power of the Hearst press, which refused all ads for the picture. (The film's main character is a thinly-disguised portrait of newspaper baron William Randolph Hearst.) So, people across the country did not know it was ever on.RKO told me it would open at the Radio City Music Hall. It didn’t. Hearst phoned the Rockefellers, who owned the theater, and the offer was withdrawn. For years after, any movie I was in the Hearst papers would “forget” to mention me in the reviews. We got nine nominations, but on Oscar night the audience booed mere mention of the title. It got one award–for best original screenplay. "Citizen Kane" ended up losing money for RKO. It broke Orson’s spirit. But in an odd way it made me and I just kept on going even when Orson couldn’t take it anymore.   JOSEPH COTTENwith AGNES MOOREHEAD in "THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS" BAWDEN: Some people think Welles follow-up film, "The Magnificent Ambersons," (1942) was an even better picture.COTTEN: We thought that when we were making it. It was more expensive to make and the costumes were expensive. Much of the house was built as a fully working house. I mean, walls wouldn’t move out so our cinematographer, Stanley Cortez, had a helluva challenge lighting scenes. One problem: it had no stars to entice patrons into the theater. We shot it very quickly, as I recall. I loved my part. Dolores Costello was so beautiful it was easy imagining I was in love with her. Orson wrote the script in two weeks using great gobs of dialogue from the book.When Anne Baxter came from Fox (to play) Lucy, she was accompanied by a guardian (because she was legally a minor). It was Frank Lloyd Wright, her grandfather, the great architect. Orson showed him the footage already shot and Frank said, “Magnificent architecture. Story so-so.”For the scenes in winter, we shot in an ice house so you could see our breath. And, yes, it is true--Agnes Moorehead’s hysterical scene on the stairs was shot a number of different ways, all believable. Aggie is that kind of actress, you see.We were shooting on Dec. 7, 1941, Pearl Harbor day. That’s what killed us: American war anxiety. Suddenly the problems of a turn-of-the-century family in Indianapolis became completely irrelevant. The first preview was before a bunch of louts expecting a Hopalong Cassidy western. Instead they got this strange film without titles at the beginning and an unseen narrator. They hollered back at the picture and the RKO (brass) heard about it and ordered it be cut down to 80 minutes. Bob Wise, our editor, stretched it to 88 minutes, but at least 40 minutes was lost. And the picture tanked with the public. Orson’s short reign as a golden boy was over.BAWDEN: Didn’t you write the screenplay for his next film, "Journey Into Fear"?COTTEN: I used so little of the plot the novelist, Eric Ambler, later thanked me, saying he could sell the story again for another movie. By this time Orson was in love with Dolores Del Rio (the film's leading lady). The adjective “orchidaceous” applies to her. Being the world’s most beautiful woman made her quite childlike about everything. She lived in a house straight out of Omar Khayam. It was the last Mercury production. RKO hated it so. (The studio took Welles off the picture, which was finished by Norman Foster.) I thought it was made too fast because Orson wanted to get out of RKO as quickly as possible. And he got his wish.BAWDEN: How did David Selznick pick you up?COTTEN: Blame my agent. Leland shopped me around town. David seemed mildly interested, so I went out to meet him at his Culver City office. Parts of the sets from "Gone With the Wind" were up all over the lot. I later met him at the swimming pool at the Beverly Wilshire hotel. David liked to operate out in the open so people could see him. He’d produced two Oscar-winning movies in a row, "Gone With the Wind" and "Rebecca," and then went into this three year funk. Didn’t make a single movie, but he had all these hot stars under contract–Joan Fontaine and Ingrid Bergman and was about to hire Jennifer Jones and Shirley Temple.BAWDEN: First impressions? COTTEN: A bulky, ugly man. Warts all over the place, bulbous nose, glasses that didn’t suit him. Talked a mile a minute. But he made a grand pitch for me. I told Leland I’d sign and it changed my career. In typical Selznick fashion, he had me making two movies at once: "Gaslight" for MGM with Ingrid Bergman and "Since You Went Away" right up the street, for him, with Claudette Colbert. When I’d tell him how tiring it all was, he’d slip me some Benzedrine, which I definitely would not take.I realized he thrived under the pressure of deadlines. Anything less and he’d become positively lethargic. And also he was beginning to fall for Jennifer in a way that surprised and disturbed her. After all, she was married to Robert Walker at the time.   JOSEPH COTTEN consoles INGRID BERGMAN in "GASLIGHT,"for which Bergman won the Best Actress Academy Award of 1944. BAWDEN: "Gaslight" is one of your most memorable films.COTTEN: Well, Ingrid, Charles Boyer and even teenager Angela Lansbury all got Oscar nominations and Ingrid even won. But not me. Where did I go wrong? For starters, we all trooped off to the screening room to watch the 1940 original, which MGM had bought and then suppressed. My part really didn’t exist in that. It was played by a very old actor and he was a retired detective who was running some kind of bicycle repair shop, as I recall. And it was very obvious from the beginning the husband was planning to kill the wife. George Cukor (who directed the MGM remake) insisted on a more nuanced interpretation.MGM never did anything by half measures. A complete Victorian house was constructed--and, in fact, a whole row of them--for Thornton Square. That set on the backlot was there for the next 25 years. I made parts of a 1951 movie, "The Man With A Cloak," on the same set.I met and truly fell for Ingrid on a completely non-romantic level. We’ve been buddies ever since and now she is so very sick. (Bergman died in 1982, just over a year after I talked with Cotten.) Charles (Boyer) was a master actor, I believe his is the film’s best performance. My part was the third wheel. I could be away up the street making another film and not be missed.BAWDEN: And what do you think of "Since You Went Away" (1944)?COTTEN: A Herculean achievement. After "Gone With the Wind," David could never make just a good little movie. It had to be gargantuan. I’d been warned about Claudette Colbert--How she wanted all the sets to be constructed to show off her left side. When I asked her, she giggled and assured me her right side wasn’t the dark side of the moon. A tiny person, so methodical. She left me amazed at her understanding of the film process. John Cromwell was the nominal director, but David (Selznick) was always lurking in the background. We shot and shot. Claudette’s two daughters were played by Jennifer Jones and Shirley Temple, in a comeback part at the ripe old age of 15.   COTTEN (right) with JENNIFER JONES and ROBERT WALKER in"SINCE YOU WENT AWAY"(1944). Jonesand Walker were married in real life, but their marriagewas breaking up while filming went on. We had a lot of fun on the set because filming never seemed to stop. Or should I say some of us had fun. Jenny’s marriage to Robert Walker was falling apart even as they had to film romantic scenes where they were supposed to be falling in love. I’m a naval officer who comes and goes. There was a slight whiff of romance but nothing more. Today the characters would all be heaving away in bed. We thought we were finished several times and then David would recall everyone for additional scenes. Prints were about to be delivered when he ordered Claudette back again to shoot new scenes with Nazimova. She told me since she was hired on a week-to-week basis that she made a fortune for it. And it was a big hit, a three hour black and white saga of a family on the home front.BAWDEN: Around this time you got to kick Hollywood gossip columnist Hedda Hopper in the butt.COTTEN: Well, somebody had to do it. I was then making a Deanna Durbin picture at Universal, a little something called "Hers To Hold" (1943). And my wife and I were in San Francisco for the weekend. When we got back to L.A. it was after midnight and since I had a 7 a.m. call I decided to proceed to the studio and sleep a few hours there in my dressing room. What I didn’t know was Deanna had decided on doing the same thing in her gargantuan dressing room on the other side of the lot. I never knew she was there until I read an item in Hedda Hopper’s column blasting me and hinting we were having a clandestine affair. Obviously, a security guard had sold Hedda the item. But it angered me, got my wife upset and later at a party I saw Hedda bending over to pick something up and I let her have it. She toppled and I walked away singing. Well, a lot later Hedda comes up to me at another party and says, “Joseph, I had that coming to me” and she just walks away, but with her head turned just in case I don’t try for a repeat.BAWDEN: How did you and Alfred Hitchcock get to Universal for "Shadow of A Doubt?" (Hitchcock was also under exclusive contract to David O. Selznick.)   COTTEN with TERESA WRIGHTin Alfred Hitchcock's 1943"SHADOW OF A DOUBT,"played a strangler of women. COTTEN: It was part of a deal engineered by Selznick, a two for the price of one fire sale. Hitch still says its his best U.S. picture because it is grounded in reality. Every shot was made in Santa Rosa except for a scene on the veranda. I still think Teresa Wright marvellous in it. We had a grand cast of characters. Pat Collinge was my older sister, married to Henry Travers and Hume Cronyn was the mama’s boy living next door who was always trying to fashion a perfect murder scenario. The malt shop actually existed, so did the library where young Charley (Teresa Wright) runs one night just as it is closing . After that, I played a lot of disturbed young men, often guys in uniform. I blame Hitch--I still do, for discovering my murderous side.BAWDEN: You say "I’ll Be Seeing You" (1944) was your most profitable war picture?COTTEN: Oh, yes. Made for David’s “B” unit, Vanguard Pictures. He wanted nothing to do with it, telling young producer Dore Schary, “Make it or don’t make it, I couldn’t give a damn.” So Dore made it at breakneck speed. No retakes! No memos! Ginger Rogers was a girl out of jail on a Christmas pass and I was a disillusioned war veteran slipping into insanity. We meet, we date. I meet her relatives, played by Spring Byington, Shirley Temple and Tom Tully. It worked for the females in the audience. Add a big song hit and David had huge profits from a film because for once production costs had been so low.BAWDEN: You also play a disturbed soldier in "Love Letters" (1945).COTTEN: Paramount borrowed Jennifer and me for it. Watching it on TV recently, it seems so unreal. I mean the art director’s concept of England, all thatched cottages and winding lanes. Jennifer was beautiful in it, ethereal even. She practically made one believe in it and she got her third Oscar nomination in a row. It was a huge hit for Paramount and David then put us together in our third picture as co-stars.BAWDEN: That would be "Duel in the Sun."COTTEN: Or "Lust in the Dust," as one critic said. It ran on and on, the filming. I got the offer from David while I was at the Fairmont in San Francisco in the form of a telegram. I shouted at the bell hop to slip it under the door but he said it was too big. Too Big! It seemed like a small telephone directory! But David’s memos always did run on a bit. Of course, I had to take the part, I was under contract. I hated being the good son, Jesse, I wanted to be the bad one, but Greg Peck was hotter at the box office than I was. So I made do.   COTTEN withJENNIFER JONES inthe epic western"DUEL IN THE SUN." Filming dragged on and on, depending on David’s whims. (Director) King Vidor finally walked away in disgust and Josef Von Sternberg took over for a bit. Then King returned. We shot vast amounts of stuff that was never used. One night at campfire out on the lone prairie David said if he were starting "Gone With the Wind" today–in 1946–he would use Greg Peck as Rhett, Jennifer as Scarlett, me as Ashley and Dorothy McGuire as Melanie. "Gone With the Wind" seemed like another time but it was only seven years old and already Clark (Gable) was off at war or just getting back and Leslie Howard had died in a plane crash. David was clearly thinking of it when he started this one.BAWDEN: Then you squired Loretta Young in "The Farmer’s Daughter" (1947), which won her an Oscar as the Swedish-American farm girl who ends up running for Congress.COTTEN: I loved working with Ethel Barrymore (who played a major supporting role.), Very coquettish. Those black eyes would stare at me if I made a goof and had to have a retake. David bought it for Ingrid Bergman, but after "The Bells of St. Mary’s," she said, “No more Swedes.” So Loretta came in and was every bit as movie savvy as Claudette. We shot it fast and it was considered this fragile little comedy. But Loretta won over some tough opposition because our picture affirmed American values. It was very positive. It never hurt to be the leading man in that kind of situation.   COTTEN played a romantic role opposite LORETTA YOUNG,who won the Best Actress Oscar for 1947 for "The Farmer's Daughter." BAWDEN: When did you make "The Third Man" in Vienna?COTTEN: In 1948. Cold months. The city really was as divided as Berlin, you know, into four zones of occupation. Do you know what starvation looks like? I found out that winter. Most of the early locations were night exteriors. But there was a problem –the electrical system was unreliable and many nights we had to give up and I’d crawl into my hotel bed simply shivering. It was made by a master director, Carol Reed. I thought Orson (Welles, who acted in the film) might act up and he tried on occasion, but Carol was the soul of patience and he really knew what he was doing. I drank a lot of coffee laced with bourbon on those shoots in cobblestone squares. The condition of the people was pathetric.Orson isn’t in much of the early scenes. We’re chasing him through the darkened streets until he just pops up. The ferris wheel sequence contains the only bit of dialogue he was allowed to interpolate, when he says the Italians under the Borgias had warfare, terror, poisonings and they produced the Renaissance. By contrast the Swiss had 600 years of democracy and what resulted? The cuckoo clock.What I remember is the smell of the sewers, which were constructed in the nineteenth century. It really and truly stank. A lot of fine sewer men were down there and we became great friends. They’d been working underground for up to 30 years and they said they couldn’t smell anything. Anyhow, 30 years later I was back in Vienna and a newspaper asked me to return to the sewers for a photo opportunity. I agreed and was greeted with elation by all my old friends still down there. And it still stank as bad as ever.I spent a lot of time with the great Italian beauty, Alida Valli. David (Selznick) had “discovered” her but the movies she made for him were not star-making parts, like "The Paradine Case." One night we were sitting around a saloon in Vienna and Carol hears the zither being performed and on the spot he hired the player, Anton Karas, to do the score and it really made the picture, it really did. (Karas' "Third Man Theme" also became a top pop music sensation.)And now about the famous ending in the cemetery where Valli at Harry’s grave walks right past Holly Martins (that’s me) and into the distance. Carol started the day without an ending. He made that up on the spot and it’s wonderful. I’m in the foreground waiting patiently for her to walk into my arms and it never happens. She walks right past me and out of my life.BAWDEN: Bette Davis says "Beyond the Forest" (1949) is her worst movie.COTTEN: Oh, I’ve made far worse. It should never have been made. Jack Warner was trying to fire Bette but refused to just release her. He wanted to drive her out. And she wasn’t going unless he paid her off. So there was this impasse and we made this dreadful film. I had to do it because David had sold my services to Jack. If I backed out, David, who was already bankrupt, might suffer even more. Today it is considered camp but it was hell making it.   JOSEPH COTTEN with black-wigged BETTE DAVISin the high camp melodrama "BEYOND THE FOREST." BAWDEN: You were back with Hitchcock in "Under Capricorn" (1949).COTTEN: Filmed in London’s Elstree Studios, but (it was supposed to be) Australia in the nineteenth century. Hitch’s first after leaving Selznick and setting up shop on his own back in Britain. A hell of a challenge for actors. In "Rope" and this one, Hitch decided to eschew editing and the takes could last up to 10 minutes while we walked around and walls were removed on cue and all we had to do was remember our lines and our cues. Hitch used a lot of Irish actors from the Abbey Theater because this was all about convicts down under. Hitch has rightly disowned "Under Capricorn" ever since. It was a huge flop, his biggest-ever mistake. And I never again was asked to be in one of his movies.BAWDEN: How long was "Portrait of Jennie" (1949) in production?COTTEN: Off and on for almost a year, most of 1948. (Director) Bill Dieterle did a good job in catering to David’s whims but even Bill could get angry at the number of memos received. Finally, he shouted at David, “Why don’t you direct it yourself?” David was stunned-–“No, you are doing a great job”--and walked back to his office to write another memo. Joe August could only get the effects David needed by using the lenses he’d used shooting William S. Hart pictures 30 years earlier–the glow that always seemed to encompass Jennie. We shot the winter scenes for days in Central Park and then David says to Bill, “If it looks bad, we can always fake it back in the studio.” The looks Bill gave were truly terrifying. You see David was in one of his manic states.It’s really a very tiny piece, all about time travelling. It was David’s love poem for Jennifer. She’s so real as the young girl Ethan first meets in Central Park. It should have been a mood piece. But costs mounted as David added all sorts of scenes that were not necessary and many were later jettisoned. Jennifer got more nervous as filming progressed. He really dominated her by this time. Then he added the huge storm at the end and the picture bankrupted him. The public stayed away. He had overproduced the whole damned thing.BAWDEN: Then what happened?COTTEN: He sold off the studio lot, all unused properties. He disbanded his family of actors, selling our contracts all over the place. He only produced one more picture in his life. He was a spent force, destroyed by his obsessions about Jennifer.BAWDEN: People say your Fifties movies were not as good as the Forties ones.COTTEN: (snappish): I know that! "September Affair" is pretty good, Joan Fontaine and I survive a plane crash and decide we’ll desert our families and live together. Very romantic. It should have been in color but the cameras were too bulky to be transported around Italy."The Man With the Cloak "(1951) has me as Edgar Allan Poe investigating a possible murder in 1850s New York city. Silly stuff. My only film with Barbara Stanwyck. I was embarrassed I got first billing because MGM was trying to punish her for some transgression. Little Leslie Caron was the ingenue and she cried throughout the shooting. I mean, to go from "An American in Paris" to this! Blah!BAWDEN: But you were Marilyn Monroe’s husband in "Niagara" (1953).COTTEN: Another murderous ex-soldier type. I never met a girl as introverted as Marilyn. The whole fame explosion had just set in and whenever we filmed on location at Niagara Falls, great crowds gathered to see her. She couldn’t cope, retreated into her shell.   A mentally-disturbed COTTENstrangles MARILYN MONROEin the thriller "NIAGARA" (1953). Director Henry Hathaway was a tough taskmaster at the best of times, He got so exasperated with Marilyn and her Russian (acting) coach he finally banned the woman from the set. I tried to keep her distracted. At night there’d always be a party in my hotel suite, but she’d look in, say "hi," and then go off with her instructress. We’d wait for hours for her to show up. Hathaway started shooting the rehearsals as backup and found she was less mannered there and actually used some of the footage. I asked her about the nude photograph and she said dead serious, “But I had the radio on.” I’m glad I knew her before the troubles enveloped her and destroyed her. I want to remember that superb girlish laughter when I told her an off color joke. One day Hathaway shouts at her and she yelled back, “After paying for my own wardrobe, my coach, my assistant and God knows who else I barely have enough left over to pay my shrink!” And the crowd watching applauded her!BAWDEN: You went into TV.COTTEN: Still did movies, but many were ones I wouldn’t have gone to see. But, yes, I “did” television. I tried live TV in 1954, "State of the Union," directed by John Frankenheimer, with Maggie Sullavan and Nina Foch. Maggie couldn’t remember a thing in rehearsals, but when that red light went on she was word perfect and I was a bundle of nerves. We had just finished a tour of "Sabrina Fair" around that time. She desperately wanted to get the movie, but Audrey Hepburn got it, so she phoned (the film's director) Billy Wilder to ask why and he said very brutally, “Because she’s 19 years younger.”But I kept returning to TV. For a half hour playlet the pay was very good, about $2,500. Hell, it paid the bills, of which I had many. Jane Wyman and Loretta Young and Hitch and June Allyson gave me work on their anthologies, I was a regular on "G.E. Theater." I had my own show called "On Trial." I always worked.BAWDEN: But you had a big part in "Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte." (1964).COTTEN: It was old home week. Bette (Davis) said, “I have to kill you in this one Joseph!” I said, “Go ahead and try! I may kill you instead.” We did exteriors in Louisiana and then Joan Crawford, who was first billed, got sick and was in the hospital. (Director) Bob Aldrich tried to replace her with Vivien Leigh, who cabled, “I could just about stand to be in a Southern plantation at 5 a.m. with Miss Crawford. But never with Miss Davis!” The nerve! So Bob got on a plane to Switzerland to entice Olivia de Havilland back and she was quite good as the evil cousin. And there was Cecil Kellaway from "Portrait of Jennie" and Aggie Moorehead from "Citizen Kane/" It was old home week.   In 1971, JOSEPH COTTENplayed an aged Baron Frankensteinin this Italian horror movie,in which he helps his daughterbuild a monster. This was nota film discussed in the same tenor as "Citizen Kane." BAWDEN: How did you get to do "A Delicate Balance" (1973)?COTTEN: Well, Kath Hepburn had promised we’d work again in 1940 after I lost out the movie version of "Philadelphia Story" to some unknown named Cary Grant. And it took her only 33 years to fulfill that pledge. It was shot in London to save money and the director, Tony Richardson, first assembled us in the house in north London that sort of looked like a typical American home. We sat around a table–Kath in her slacks, Paul Scofield, Kim Stanley, Lee Remick, Betsy Blair, who played my wife. And we read the play for four days and just talked. Then Kim stands up and shouts, “Let’s improvise here!" And she starts screaming and writhing around the floor to our shared astonishment. That night Kate and Paul gave Tony an ultimatum: Either she goes or we go. So Kim went. And they flew that great Canadian actress, Kate Reid, in from Toronto on a day’s notice and in her first scene she just steals it from Kath by neat underplaying. Can’t tell you what it was all about. Beats me. But I thought my character is supposed to be another part of Paul, so I dressed exactly like him right down to the tie and it was a small success in the market. But very satisfying to do.BAWDEN: Then you made a disaster movie, "Airport ’77"COTTEN” Well, many of those movies around then were disasters. This one was actually designed to be a disaster. I spent weeks in the water with Olivia de Havilland and Jimmy Stewart. They’d once planned on marriage but never made a picture together. To my shock it was a huge success. When NBC bought it for TV they called back Lee Grant and Christopher Lee to do additional scenes to pad out the length and paid them huge amounts. But no way would you get me back into a wet suit. Never!BAWDEN: Talk about the film you’ve just finished.COTTEN: Titled "Heaven’s Gate," it’s a Selznick type mammoth production that goes on an on and everyone seems to be in it: Kris Kristoffersen, Chris Walken, John Hurt. My part is described as a cameo, meaning I was paid a lot of money and do very little. I’m the Reverend Doctor seen in the pulpit at Oxford University. I’m told the film is now down to 219 minutes from a five hour rough draft, which was rather Selznickian in length. So we’ll just have to see. Meanwhile I’ve been signed for a TV film, "Churchill and the Generals," and they want me for "The Love Boat," not a bad year’s work for this 75-year old.NOTE: In fact 1981 was Cotton’s last as a working actor. He suffered a stroke in the shower and spent several years in rehabilitation before he could speak again. He wrote a funny memoir "Vanity Will Get You Somewhere," but then had to have his esophagus removed for cancer. He died of cancer in Westwood on Feb. 6 1994, aged 88.