Chinese newspaper names third Marathon victim --- from the boston globe （波士顿环球报从中国报纸获知了第三个受害者的姓名）

BEIJING — The third person killed in the Boston Marathon bombings was a Chinese graduate student at Boston University originally from China’s northeastern city of Shenyang, a state-run Chinese newspaper reported Wednesday.北京－在波士顿马拉松炸弹袭击中丧生的第三个受害者是波士顿大学的中国研究生，来自中国沈阳－中国内地报纸周三报道。The Shenyang Evening News said on its official Twitter-like microblog account that the victim’s name is Lu Lingzi. An editor at the newspaper said that Lu’s father confirmed his daughter’s death when reporters visited the family home. The editor declined to give his name because he was not authorized to speak to foreign media.沈阳晚新闻在它的官方微博（类推特）上公布了受害者的姓名。 报社的一名编辑说姓名是在记者访问受害者家庭时由受害者的父亲确认。编辑拒绝透露他的名字因为他没有被授权与外媒交谈。The Chinese Foreign Ministry and Consulate General in New York are not releasing the victim’s name at the request of the family. But on Tuesday, Boston media quoted a Chinese Consulate General official as saying Chinese national Lu Lingzi was missing in the wake of Monday’s bombings that killed three and wounded more than 170 people.中国驻纽约大使馆应受害者家属要求不透露受害者的姓名。但是周二，波士顿当地媒体引用了中国大使馆官员的话说＊受害者姓名＊在周一三人身亡170人受伤的马拉松炸弹袭击中失踪。In the Chinese-language world of social media, people have been sharing their condolences on what is believed to be Lu’s microblogging account hosted by Sina Weibo, which was last updated Monday with a breakfast photo. By early Wednesday afternoon, more than 14,000 comments were left on the page.在中文的网络世界里，人们已经开始向受害者的微博帐号传达他们的哀思，该微博帐号自周一早上的一张早餐照片后停止了更新。至周三下午，该帐号收到了近一万四千条留言。Friends contacted through Sina Weibo have largely declined to speak to media about Lu, saying they were adhering to the wishes of Lu’s family.通过新浪微博联系到的朋友，基本都拒绝向媒体谈论受害者，表示这是秉承家属的意愿。Lu graduated from a Shenyang high school and studied international trade at Beijing Institute of Technology before she went to the United States to study statistics as a graduate student at Boston University, according to media reports, Lu’s friends and her own Facebook page.受害者在沈阳读完高中后在北京学习后赴波士顿大学读研究生－根据媒体报道，受害者的朋友和受害者的face book。Chinese are the largest contingent of foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities. Last year, nearly 200,000 Chinese were enrolled in U.S. higher education institutions, and Massachusetts had almost 10,000 Chinese students on its college campuses, according to the Institute of International Education.中国人是美国高校外国学生队伍里人数最多的。去年，有将近20万中国学生被美国高等教育机构录取，麻萨诸塞省有将近一万名中国学生在校学习。