letter from a stranger

三个月前 我在okcupid（直弯交友恋爱约炮网）上认识了一个人她今天发这个消息过来的时候，我突然很难过因为我英语不够好 却没有被嫌弃以及 我本来可以是个善解人意的好朋友的I often change my mind fast and maybe that's what makes me feel more and more twisted, one day feeling as if you're a different person and capable of climbing your fear and the next under the table crying and hoping that the person you stabbed in the spleen and saw out the door to make sure they're gone would come back.... I feel as if, I am on a whales back and some days it's lovely and the whale and myself float along and I sing to it... And the next, both of us take a turn for the worst and we try to maim the other and we wake up on the beach one day our bellies touching and our eyes wet and we admit that, we cant do this anymore but.. it feel good and we know it shouldn't because hurting eachother shouldn't be our bread and butter...... I admit though, admitting thoughts as they change so often is useless.As a person and this is a long read feel free to come back to it in the future or never. But this is accurate feel free not to reassure or comfort it's all true. I am sort of like an empty photo frame on a floor ten of them half of them filled with snippets from old photo albums and magazines and changed on the regular never allowing the nicer ones to stay for long but the older more unpleasant photos of rotten limbs and decay allowed to stay... So, I guess you could say. I am stuck in my ways because by nature, I have OCD of others personality / a ridgid fussiness, I am very judgmental and I am aware of how this troubles people and know very well, I'm not perfect and shouldn't do it but, I also think they take it personally.. I am fussy and particular and wont hesitate to throw someone away if they're not serving any good or not doing their bit, even if I'm not providing them with anything, I get told they never get why it happened and are very confused of why, I cut them off. I will say this though, because well they didn't satisfy something in my mind they had to and I was displeased with how maybe irregular or how much they change - I like things to be similar -I am well aware of my own faults and yet even if people critize them, I really wont give a donkeys ass, I would just shrug them off or give them a hoof to the mouth. I get a rush from upsetting people, I get a rush from hurting people and not to higher my esteem because, I also get a rush when people hurt me. I see things as black or white, I change my ophions daily and wont even feel shame about it, the only people.. I was ever sure, I loved for sure was twin and my mother and only for them did I seem to feel guilt or very upset about hurting them..... See I think that's enough and these things are horrible. I know that abusing people until they go away and getting joy out of pain and spite and needing to throw people away isn't healthy but.. there was never anything that caused this, it's just who I happen to be someone who doesn't give or take affection well... I'm sure there's good things and I tell you this because, I hope you would tell me about you good preferably as one of us gloomy guts is enough! And because, I like you a lot. Be it because you write beautifully, and you see things beautifully and sometimes you are so wonderfully gloomy and I like gloomy on occasion... I also feel like, with you it's like breathing because you dont expect and you give just as much back. Perhaps it helps that our nature, is a tiny bit alike when it comes to well it seems we like to avoid people at times more me than you, I suspect... wording it is hard. I dont mind your company. I dont mind you telling me anything you want to.... perhaps it's because you love music as much or perhaps it's because you speak my language.... just know, and I will deny this. That, i care a lot about you even if in a lot of senses we are strangers. 