the computaion theory of mind--a course review（1）

这是我对‘心智的计算理论’的一个课程回顾~，这是第一单元1. The Traditional Mind-Body Problem1.1 Cartesianism : mind and body are two different things with interactionIn meditation, Descartes argues that mind and body are distinct entities. Here is his three major arguments:AMind can be known for certain;Body cannot be known for certain;So mind and body are distinct.BWe can imagine the body not to exist;We cannot imagine the mind not to exist;So mind and Body are distinct.CBody is divisible;Mind is indivisible;So mind and body are distinct.Deploying theses three arguments, Descartes thinks he has entrench the claim that mind and body is two different things.  In addition, Descartes thinks mind and body can interact somewhere in the brain. It is this claim that makes Cartesianism get into great trouble.  Cartesianism compromises two aspects: the entity-dualism and the interactionism. At the age of Descartes, People think that only things with extension can interact. But according to Descartes, the mind is a being without extension. That makes it very mysterious that how can the body and the mind interact with each other.Due to Descartes’ significant contribution, people now realize that the body and the mind in one way are quite different. But in another way they are connected so tightly. Is mind can be reduced to physical being fundamentally? And if not, how can the mind make an impact on the body? The relation between the mind and body now becomes the central problem of philosophy of mind.1.2 Various Kinds of DualismSince the cartesianism has such a severe problem, some dualists after Descartes try to abandon the interactionism. Dualisms without interactionism include: epiphenomenalism, parallelism and ocassionalism   Epiphenomenalism claims that mind and body are different but mind doesn’t have any causal efficacy on the body. For example, I feel thirsty and have a drink. In common sense, feeling thirsty is the cause to have a drink. But according to epiphenomenalism, it is not the case. I get a drink because a physical cause makes me do it. And feeling thirsty is just a epiphenomena happens with that cause.Similarly, parallelism and occasionalism both agree that mind and body are different without interaction. Parallelism is the idea that mental events and physical events are perfectly coordinated by God. In contrast, occasionalism is the idea that mental events and physical events cordinate so well for they have the same cause—God.  It is like the case that a clock maker  makes two different clocks with the same pace. So these two clocks always show the same time at every moment.1.3 The Leibniz’s Mill Some dualists try to salvage Descartes’ idea that mind and body is distinct by denying that mind and body have interaction. Another approach is to reject the thesis that mind and body is different, in order to save the interaction between mind and body.  This is the so-called materialism.Leibniz challenges the materialism by a thought experiment—The Leibniz’s Mill. According to materialism, mind is no difference from the body. So mind is identical to something physical, to which the best candidate is the brain. And from the view of materialist, the mind (or the brain) is just a delicate machine. So far so well, Leibniz invites us to imagine that mind is a mill (maybe the most complicated mechanistic thing that can be imagined at that time). Suppose that mill is delicate enough to be a mind. However, we all know that mind can sense colors like red and white. And even if we look into that complicated mill, we have no way to find any perception like red and white inside it. Therefore, Leibniz thinks that mind at least has one thing different from the machine. 