大象之声：每一件象牙制品都是以大象的生命为代价！  2013年2月18日 星期一 10：34 （试翻译）

大象之声：每一件象牙制品都是以大象的生命为代价！2013年2月18日 星期一 10：34    近日，大象之声发起了反对象牙交易的运动。作为造成屠杀大象的主因，象牙交易每年夺走数以万计的大象的生命。大象研究专家、大象之声联合创始人，乔伊丝·卜尔博士称，“所谓‘一次性出售象牙库存’严重违反了1989年有关象牙交易的禁令，这种交易发生以后，我就有种似曾相识的感觉，那就是我们现在正经历着另一场大象屠杀，对此我十分伤心，却也并不惊讶。今年的濒危绝种野生动植物国际交易公约会在曼谷举行，与会代表们将对大象的命运展开的讨论，而在此两周前，“大象之声”向世界发出警告：市场上每一根新的象牙，都意味着新的死亡、伤痛和破坏。    乔伊丝·卜尔博士说：”我们请求大家帮我们向那些还不知情的潜在买家传递一个信息，那就是现在大象正在被以前所未有的速度屠杀，而原因仅仅是因为象牙可以制成一些小工艺品或装饰品。要想阻止这种狂暴的屠杀，唯一的办法就是遏止需求，停止象牙贸易。”        大象之声以纽约艺术家亚瑟·杰的两幅震撼之作作为其宣传的主要载体：两幅作品上分别写着“每一件象牙制品都是以大象的生命为代价；不要购买象牙制品”，“每一件象牙制品都是以大象的生命为代价；停止象牙贸易”，意在影响潜在买家以及决策者，同时也专为在中国的宣传而设计。“大象之声现在正在做一件比较特别的事情：我们在网站上贴出了一些图，人们可以在将其上传到社交网站上，也可以印在T恤上，贴在汽车上，还可以用在海报上，以及一些条幅旗帜上。”执行理事彼得·格兰力说。    “这个信息传的越远越好，越广越好，最好是能'疯传'。盗猎活动危及大象生存，损害了生物多样性，也威胁到了大象分布区所在国的旅游、民生以及稳定。大象命运岌岌可危，因此我们必须马上行动。”希望在中国    现在的象牙需求是不可持续的，因为其正在以极快的速度消耗大象资源。很多国家都有不少人在购买象牙制品，而其中最大的需求国就是中国。中国政府和人民有特殊的责任，率先为终止大象的大肆屠杀做出行动。国际社会曾做过一个决定，允许中国购买一定量的象牙库存；正是这一决定对大象的生存造成了不可估量的危害。中国进口的象牙中，有百分之九十来自被屠杀的大象和其他的不合法的渠道。中国买家有权知道，数以万计的大大象为满足中国买家的需求而惨遭杀害。每一件象牙制品都是以大象的生命为代价。     中国有能力通过提升公众意识，加强法制等手段快速遏止象牙贸易、象牙制品购买以及盗猎大象。保护在非巨额投资的同时，中国也能阻止其国民导致的对非洲遗产和生物多样性的破坏。我们强烈要求中国马上采取行动过，终止象牙贸易,因为我们不能失去大象这一关键物种。 中国 Zhōngguó means China. 拯救大象，让其免遭灭绝，我们需要中国发挥明星效应。（or 如果star power 是借代，指中国的话，或可译为:拯救大象免遭灭绝，我们需要中国。）大象家庭    象牙是一种由象牙质构成的脆弱的牙齿，每年生长2厘米，并且可以终身生长。象牙与鹿角不同，它不会脱落，也不能从活象身体里取出，为了得到象牙，就必须用斧子将其砍出。相比雌象，雄象的象牙会长一些，因此盗猎分子首先选择捕杀处在繁育期的成年雄象。当这些雄象都被捕杀光后，盗猎分子则把目光瞄准年龄更小的大象。    现在大象社会（大象种群结构）很像是经历了一场持久战乱的人类社会--大部成年雄性都死了，结果使雄性小象失去了模仿的榜样。随着可被雄性成年大象数量下降，盗猎分子把目标转向大象社会的领导核心--年长的雌象。他们从大象家族中的年长者开始，一个一个的杀死雌象。象牙制品价格也随着需求的增加而提高，结果盗猎者屠杀雌象的活动使整个大象家族分崩离析。像人类的宝宝一样，大象宝宝离了母亲的关爱就无法生存。大量的非洲大象孤儿因饥饿和悲伤折磨至死。从事象牙贸易和购买象牙制品的人正在给非洲大象家庭制造巨大灾难！保护大象社会，是这个世界的道义上的责任，也是对人类价值观的重要检验。关于“大象之声”“大象之声”成立于2002年，致力于为大象的利益进行全球性的努力。“大象之声”的任务就是让大象的智慧、大象的复杂性以及大象的声音来激发奇迹，通过保护、研究以及知识共享来为大象寻求一个更加适合生存的未来。“大象之声”联合创始人乔伊斯·普尔博士是世界著名大象研究专家，自1975年开始研究大象，一直致力于大象保护及大象福利。肯尼亚，2013年2月18日ElephantVoices campaign: EVERY TUSK COSTS A LIFE      Monday, 18 February 2013 10:34  PRESS RELEASE 18TH MARCH 2013ElephantVoices is launching a campaign against the ivory trade, which is causing the slaughter of tens of thousands of elephants every year. Elephant expert and Co-Founder of ElephantVoices, Dr. Joyce Poole, observes, "It is with a sense of déjà vu and deep sorrow, though little surprise, that following the torpedoing of the 1989 ban by the 'one-off' sales of ivory stockpiles, we find ourselves living through, and battling against, another elephant massacre."Two weeks before the delegates to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) meet in Bangkok, Thailand, to discuss the fate of elephants once more, ElephantVoices reminds the world that each new tusk on the market means more death, trauma and destruction."We are asking people to help us reach out to potential buyers of ivory who don't realize that elephants are dying in record-high numbers for trinkets and decorations. The only way to stop this wanton slaughter of elephants is to choke demand for ivory and stop the trade," states Joyce Poole.ElephantVoices is basing its campaign on two powerful pieces of graphic art by New York artist, Asher Jay. The artworks, with the slogans, EVERY TUSK COSTS A LIFE; DON'T BUY IVORY and EVERY TUSK COSTS A LIFE; STOP THE TRADE, target potential buyers and decision-makers, and are also specifically directed toward a Chinese audience. "ElephantVoices is doing something unique by making the graphic art available online in several versions, so they can be shared on social networks and be used for T-shirts, bumper-stickers, posters and banners", says Executive Director, Petter Granli."We urge people to share these messages far and wide, making them go viral. The poaching is endangering elephants, jeopardizing biodiversity, and threatening tourism, people's livelihoods and stability in elephant range states. The writing is on the wall for elephants and we must act now", says Joyce Poole.Yellow Stars Shed LightThere are too many people buying ivory in too many countries. The current demand for elephant tusks is unsustainable and is swiftly mining Africa's elephants. The largest demand is in China and, hence, the Chinese government and her people have a special responsibility for taking a lead to end the decimation of elephants. China was permitted to buy a restricted amount of ivory from stockpiles, a decision by the international community that has caused immense harm to elephants. Ninety percent of the ivory available in China is from slaughtered elephants, illegally sourced, traded and sold. Chinese buyers deserve to know that tens of thousands of elephants are being killed to supply them with ivory. Every tusk costs a life.China has the ability to raise public awareness and to enforce their strict laws to quickly strangle the trading, buying and poaching. China can stop her countrymen causing the destruction of Africa's heritage and biodiversity, while concurrently protecting her enormous investments on the African continent. We urge China to take action now to end any trade in ivory - we cannot afford to lose Africa's keystone species. 中国 Zhōngguó means China. Star power is needed to save Africa's elephants from extermination.Family ValuesAn elephant's 'ivory' tusks are enervated teeth composed of dentine that grow throughout life, adding two centimeters each year. They are not shed like antlers, they do not drop out and they just cannot be removed from living elephants. To obtain them you must hack them out with an axe. The tusks of male elephants are much larger than those of females. Poachers target elephants with the largest tusks, killing the mature, breeding males first. When they are dead and gone, poachers set their sights on younger males.Elephant societies today resemble human communities after a prolonged war - most of the elephant patriarchs, the big tuskers, are gone. There are no role models for the elephant sons. As the number of adult males available to kill declines, poachers turn to the older females - the leaders of elephant society. They kill the family elders first, taking out the matriarchs, one by one. As the price of ivory increases with rising demand, the poachers slaughter the elephant mothers and daughters, causing the disintegration of entire families. An elephant's child, like a human child, cannot survive without the loving care of its mother. Africa's elephant orphans are succumbing in droves to starvation, grief and death. Ivory traders and buyers are wrecking havoc on Africa's elephant families. The world has a moral obligation to protect elephant societies, surely a crucial test of human values.About ElephantVoicesElephantVoices was founded in 2002, and works globally for the interest of elephants. Its mission is to inspire wonder in the intelligence, complexity and voices of elephants, and to secure a kinder future for them through conservation, research and the sharing of knowledge. Co-Founder Dr. Joyce Poole is a world-renown elephant expert, and has studied them and worked for their conservation and welfare since 1975.Kenya, 18 February 2013