Why do we need more library-supporting programs? Why STARS?

Books are always teachers. It’s found that there are 120 million students in about 400 thousandprimary and middle schools where there are no or just a few books,or, there are books that are too out-dated or difficult for schoolchildrenand teachers to read. Under this circumstance, Stars decides to buildlibraries in countryside (mainly in schools), provides books which aresuitable for teenagers and teachers, and arrange related reading activities to arouse their interest in reading and broaden their horizon.Something about students in Xinping and the library: 1.	At the moment, in the Xingping central primary school, there are 877 studentsand no library open for them, no book store in town, neither. 2.	We will bring 2000 books for this time and there will be 700 more next year.3.	More than 70% of students in Xingping live in school from Sunday to Friday and they are not allowed to go out the school during that time, not even comeover for the library. So we will send each class 40 books and let them borrow and exchange books within the class.4.	The library will be open to the kids for free. It contains about 30kids. They canread books inside the library and take books back home, too. Each student willhave their own reader card for free.5.	We have already spent 24,339yuan for building the library and plan to openit on July 10th.6.	We will have two volunteers and one university student from UK come andhelp running the library this summer, adding with organize some reading activitiesfor the kids.XINGPING This Old Place Youth Hostel is currently working on a library for local children here in xingping. After paying more than 24000 Chinese yuan during the last two months, we have funded the construction but we need your help to purchase the books.  By now we have already received 13650 chinese yuan of donation and we still need 36350yuan. Any donations are appreciated. You can choose to support us through any of these methods:1.	 Donate money at the reception if you are coming to the hostel. There is no limit to the amount and we would like to ask you to write down your full name and email address, so that we can inform you how it is going with the library in the future.2.	 Transfer money through PAYPAL to the account of our hostel.  Please leave note and tell us that the transfer is for supporting the library for local kids in Xingping. Here we promise that we will take care of any donations and we will transfer the full amount to the STARS organization. To make the donation plan transparent and clear, we would public the financial report on our facebook page.If you have any question about the library project or the STARS, please do not hesitate to contact the manager of Xingping This Old Place Youth Hostel, either calling her to 0086-15949378974 or write her emails to 2firstmaya@gmail.com.联系满天星公益 Contact STARS1. 地址及邮编：广东省广州市海珠区小洲东路瀛园小区乐雅堂2楼；510320 Address: Floor 2, Leya Hall, Yingyuan Garden, Xiaozhou East Rd. Haizhu District, Guangzhou,Guangdong Provincezip code: 5103202. 电话Tel：020-34138485 3. 机构网站Website： 4. 其它：微博@满天星公益        豆瓣@满天星公益  Contact Xingping This Old Place :Email: topxingping@gmail.comTel: 0086-773-8702887Address: Number 5, Road Rongtan, Xingping, Yangshuo, Guilin, CHINAABOUT STARS1. Introduction Stars Youth Development Center (hereafter “Stars”) established in Oct of 2011 is a non-governmental commonweal organization dedicated to adolescent education. Our main job is to build Stars Libraries for rural primary schools faced with book shortage in under-developed areas in China, and gradually form a local Stars Library net in 3 years. With this foundation, we organize diversified reading promotion activities with participation of young volunteers, so as to help children in rural areas to develop interest and habit in reading, and arouse urban teenagers’ awareness of social responsibility.2. Idea of Stars: Spread knowledge and improve reading quality of rural adolescents; Build a platform and arouse sense of responsibility of urban adolescents. 1） Help children and teachers in under-developed areas to build libraries consisting of quality books; 2） Involve urban and community teenagers in library establishment, communication and development； 3） Help teenagers from both urban and rural areas to broaden horizon, spread kindness and improve themselves through professional public service. 3. Features of STARS1). Quality books: Stars selects the best 1000 books among all children's publication in China, which will be updated annually. We refer to the recommends for children at various ages of domestic authorities, and customize standard book category for children in each grade, which ensures books in libraries are scientific, professional and comprehensive for children who not only can read, but also enjoy and benefit from reading.  2). School-wide book exchange: To encourage schools in one area to exchange books so as to update and maximize books. 3). School-wide book exchange: To encourage schools in one area to exchange books so as to update and maximize books.4). Class Reading Corner: With libraries as foundation, a model is designed that books are borrowed and returned by classes periodically where a class reading corner is formed. The open hour of a library is limited, while that of the class reading corner enables children to read anytime they want and improves the utility of books5). Sustainable return-visit: Project crew pay return-visits, by monthly call and by quarterly.6). on-site visit, to school librarians periodically. Or as requested in the cooperation agreement, schools send periodical feedback of Stars Library to project team to ensure the operation afterwards.7). Upgrading Plan in 3 years: Fund of the libraries are invested in three years, 50% in the first year, 25% in the second and 25% in the third year. Every year, 20 % of new books and some equipment are provided to change the existing classrooms to functional multi-media classrooms.to see how we built the library, please click this link ：