一些美国警察的负面新闻汇总

这些是我在美国一年间稍微关注过的美国警察的新闻，都是负面新闻，肯定不能代表美国警察整体形象。我的认识还不够不全面，就不发表观点了。先把事实材料存放在这，免得淡忘了。（帖子里的链接和视频基本都是国外网站，可能因为众所周知的原因“无法显示”。）－－－－－－－2009年1月1日 在旧金山Bart公交站被警察压住的时候挣扎，被击毙。开枪警察在监狱待了两年，已经出狱。视频搜一下网络上有很多。最近有根据此事拍成的独立电影Fruitvale station上映。－－－－－－－2011年7月16日19岁的黑人小伙Kenneth Harding Jr. 因为乘坐旧金山MUNI公交逃票被警察追击。警察声称在追捕过程中Kenneth开枪，于是开枪将其击毙（YouTube ， 血腥慎入）。但后来并没有找到Kenneth的枪。今年7.16两周年之际旧金山因为此事发生了抵制MUNI公交的活动。－－－－－－－以下三个是我刚到美国后看到的新闻，都有视频，当时非常不能接受，后来这类新闻看多了就没那么震撼了。－－－－－－－2012年7月1日Milton Hall, 黑人流浪汉，精神不正常，手里拿了一把刀，在密歇根SAGINAW的一个马路边的停车场，在光天化日之下，在和警察保持一定距离的时候，被6名警察开了三四十枪击毙（YouTube ）。几个月后，这6名警察。－－－－－－－2012年8月12日纽约时代广场附近，一名持刀黑人在和警察对峙数分钟后被连开12枪击毙。当时有很多人用手机或者相机拍下现场。只要搜索NYPD Times Square Shooting就可以找到很多新闻和视频。比如  和转到。纽约警察局认为自己做法得当。并且指出此人在有前科，08年时候因为“”用扳手打警察被因“妨碍逮捕”而送进监狱关押40天。 －－－－－－－2012年10月6号南亚拉巴马大学一名18岁新生醉酒后裸体冲撞校警局，被校警击毙。不知一名全裸的学生会对警察造成什么威胁以至于被击毙。(CNN) -- Authorities in Mobile, Alabama, are investigating why a University of South Alabama police officer shot and killed an 18-year-old freshman who they say was naked and acting erratically outside the campus police station early Saturday.The campus officer heard a loud banging noise on a window at the station at 1:23 a.m. CT (2:23 a.m. ET) Saturday, the university said in a statement. When he left the station to investigate, the school said, "he was confronted by a muscular, nude man who was acting erratically."The man, later identified as Gilbert Thomas Collar, of Wetumpka, Alabama, repeatedly rushed and verbally challenged the officer in a fighting stance, the school said.The officer, whose name hasn't been released, drew his weapon and ordered Collar to stop, the school said. The officer retreated several times to try to calm the situation."When the individual continued to rush toward the officer in a threatening manner and ignored the officer's repeated commands to stop, the officer fired one shot with his police sidearm, which struck the chest of the assailant," the school statement said. "The individual fell to the ground, but he got up once more and continued to challenge the officer further before collapsing and expiring."The officer has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of internal and external investigations, the school said.School spokesman Keith Ayers called it a "campus tragedy" for the university family but offered no other details, citing the active －－－－－－－2013年5月28日 , 72岁，被闯入自己家的警察击毙。因为警察接到犯罪举报，但是跑错地方了…… They then encountered Waller near the corner of the home as they approached the garage. The officers identified themselves as police and told Waller to drop his handgun. Instead, he pointed it at the officers, and one of the officers shot him dead.According to the medical examiner in May, Waller's place of death was in his garage.The search warrant, which was filed five hours after the shots were fired, was just made public this week.Police are still investigating the shooting.－－－－－－－除了这些致命的新闻，还有一些其他荒唐的。比如下面这个你可以看到：警察充当城管拷走摆摊卖Lemonade的白人妹子（40秒开始），因为吹肥皂泡吹到了警察身上被捕——这个黑人警察对一个姑娘好diao啊（1分25秒）。还有很多其他的就不一一列举了。－－－－－－－而最近我还看到一个奇葩的消息是佛罗里达的橄榄球运动员Antonio Morrison因为。当然后来。GAINESVILLE, Fla. -- The state attorney's office has dismissed charges against Florida linebacker Antonio Morrison, who was arrested early Sunday morning after allegedly barking at a police dog and resisting arrest.State attorney William Cervone said Tuesday that he made the decision after watching police video of the arrest. He believed Morrison did not do anything that warranted being arrested and that pursuing charges would be inappropriate."To be fair, law enforcement officers are not lawyers or fully aware of what the courts require. Nonetheless, and fair or not, their decisions must meet those standards," Cervone said. "The charge of interfering with a police animal requires malice, and none exists. lt also requires that the animal be engaged in some official duty, and it cannot be said that sitting in the back of a police cruiser in case he is needed constitutes being engaged in such activity by a police dog.－－－－－－－最后用鲁迅的一句话作为结束：这哄动一时的事件，经过了一通空论，已经渐渐冷落了…… 她们的死，不过像在无边的人海里添了几粒盐，虽然使扯淡的嘴巴们觉得有些味道，但不久也还是淡，淡，淡。 ——《论“人言可畏”》