2013.8.2

Asia-pacific MarketAsian stocks rallied on Friday, with Japan leading gains by over 3 percent as investors cheered robust global economic data and a commitment to easy monetary policy from global central banks. Japan's benchmark Nikkei hit a one-week high while Australia's S&P ASX 200 index rose to a ten-week high. The Shanghai Composite and South Korea's Kospi however, pared gains to end below their respective session highs. Wall Street's boostU.S. stocks soared to fresh closing highs on the first day of August, pushing the S&P 500 above the 1,700 mark for the first time after the pace of growth in the U.S. manufacturing sector accelerated in July to the highest level since June 2011. In Europe, manufacturing activity grew for the first time in two years in July.Meanwhile, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of England (BOE) both left interest rates at record lows on Thursday, a day after the Federal Reserve said that the U.S. economy still needed it's support.Investors are awaiting Friday's widely-watched U.S job report. Analysts polled by Reuters expect to see a gain of 184,000 in July, after a 195,000 uptick in the previous month.Nikkei rallies 3.3%Japan's benchmark index hit its highest level since last Thursday as dollar-yen flirted with the key 100-yen level and on the heels of positive earnings results.Mitsubishi jumped 4 percent after posting a 15 percent rise in net profit. Sony added 1 percent after eking out a quarterly net profit after last year's loss, but warned that its electronics division faces difficult times ahead.Meanwhile, Sharp rose 3.4 percent after reporting a smaller net loss for the April-June period from the year earlier and Suzuki Motor jumped 5.8 percent after posting a 15 percent rise in the fiscal first-quarter net profit.Toyota added over 3 percent ahead of posting results after the market-close.Shanghai ends flatChina's benchmark index pared gains after rising above 2,030 points to hit a one-week high. Property stocks rallied for a fourth-straight session as investors dismissed recent cooling measures by the government to lower home prices. China Merchants Property and Poly Real Estate led gains by 3.6 percent each.The nation's top four lenders were marginally lower after a report from the Shanghai Security News saying that new loan issuance may have hit record lows in July due to weak demand. Agricultural Bank of China lost nearly 1 percent.Sentiment rose on the back of Thursday's official purchasing manager's index (PMI) figure, which climbed above the key 50 threshold that demarcates expansion from contraction.#############U.K. house prices surged to a five-year high in July, according to the U.K.'s biggest building society, but the author of the new report told CNBC that talk of a housing bubble are overplayed an price moves are only "modest".Nationwide said on Friday that house prices in the U.K. were higher by 0.8 percent in July from June and 3.9 percent higher than in July 2012. This marks the strongest annual growth three years. A typical home is now worth £170,825 ($260,098), the highest since June 2008 when prices were at £172,415.The Bank of England's current quantitative easing (QE) program has run alongside a Funding for Lending Scheme, providing state-backed assistance for first-time buyers. Additionally, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announced in his latest budget a £5.4 billion "Help to Buy" mortgage scheme aimed at helping citizens with a limited deposit to purchase property.#############Japanese YenThis year's sharp fall in the yen may have been driven by aggressive monetary stimulus in Japan, but whether that trend continues is largely dependent on the U.S. monetary policy outlook, analysts say. The yen stood at about 99.60 per dollar on Friday, nursing losses a day after sliding about 1.7 percent as better-than-expected U.S. economic data boosted the dollar against major currencies. In fact, the dollar notched up its biggest one-day percentage gain against the yen in about four months.Many analysts expect the Fed to start unwinding its asset-purchase program in September and Lien said she expected the U.S. central bank to start sending a strong message, with dollar/yen traders likely to take their cue from rising Treasury yields.Data on Thursday showed U.S. jobless claims fell to a 5-1/2 year low last week, while growth in manufacturing activity climbed to a two-year high in July. This boosted the dollar and pushed Treasury yields higher on speculation that strong economic numbers could encourage the Fed to take back its monetary stimulus sooner rather than later.Ten-year Treasury yields rose to about 2.71 percent on Thursday – within sight of an almost two-year high set in early July.