2013.8.5

Asia-Pacific MarketAsian stocks pulled back from last week's highs on Monday following a tepid U.S. jobs report but positive Chinese economic data over the weekend capped larger losses.Japan's Nikkei index skidded 1.4 percent, Australia's S&P ASX 200 hovered around 5,110 points in cautious trade and South Korea's Kospi ended below 1,920 points. The Shanghai Composite bucked the trend however, to hit a new two-week high.US data in focusFriday's closely-awaited U.S. jobs figure came in worse-than-expected. The U.S. economy created just 162,000 nonfarm payroll jobs in July after a downwardly revised 188,000 in June. Still, Wall Street ended modestly higher with the S&P 500 and Dow hitting new closing highs.While the data was disappointing, experts said that it still showed job growth and may also make the Federal Reserve more hesitant about curtailing its bond purchases in September.Shanghai up 1%China's benchmark index rose to its highest levels since July 23 on optimism of an economic rebound. Data released over the weekend showed an improvement in China's services sector. Non-manufacturing purchasing manager's index (PMI) rose to 54.1 in July, well above the key 50 level that demarcates expansion from contraction.Shipbuilders rallied with China State Shipyard and Guangzhou Shipyard higher by 6.5 percent and 7.6 percent, respectively after the government said that the sector could see some consolidation that may benefit big firms at the expense of smaller ones.#########Life in a Toxic CountryChina is the world's second largest economy, but the enormous costs of its growth are becoming apparent. Residents of its boom cities and a growing number of rural regions question the safety of the air they breathe, the water they drink and the food they ear. It is as if they were living in the Chinese equivalent of the Chernobyl or Fukushima nuclear disaster areas.The environmental hazards here are legion, and the consequences might not manifest themselves for years or even decades. The risks are magnified for young children. Expatriate workers confronted with the decision of whether to live in Beijing weigh these factors, perhaps more than at any time in recent decades. 