最好的时代

A goal is not always meant to be reached, it often serves simply as something to aim at. 目标，不一定总是要达到，目标往往只是用来帮助你瞄准方向。A wise man can learn more from a foolish question than  can learn from a wise answer. 一个聪明人，从愚蠢的问题上学到的东西要比一个傻瓜在一个聪明的答案上学到的要多。Always be yourself, express yourself, have faith in yourself, do not go out and look for a successfull personality and duplicate it. 总是做你自己，表达自己，相信自己，而不是去寻找一种成功的性格还复制它。As you think, so shall you become. 你想成为什么样的人，就真的为成为那样的人。Ever since I was a child I have had this instinctive urge for expansion and growth. To me, the function and duty of a quality human being is the sincere and honest development of one's potential. 当我还是个孩子的时候，我就本能的渴求发展和成长，对我来说，一个“高质量”人类的作用和职责就是真正的开发自己的潜能。I'm not in this world to live up to your expectations and you're not in this world to live up to mine. 我活着不是为了满足你的期望，就像你也不是因为我的期望而活着一样。If you always put limit on everything you do, physical or anything else. It will spread into your work and into your life. There are no limits. There are only plateaus, and you must not stay there, you must go beyond them. 如果你给每件事情都设了限，无论是有形的还是无形的，它都会融进你的工作和生活。没有极限，只有停滞不前，而你千万别停滞不前，你必须超越和突破。If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of. 若你热爱生命，就不要浪费时间，因为生命是由时间构成的。If you spend too much time thinking about a thing, you'll never get it done. 如果你花费太长时间去想一件事，那你永远不会完成它。It's not the daily increase but daily decrease. Hack away at the unessential. 不是一天天的增加要求而是要一天天的减少，减去那些不必要的东西。Knowledge will give you power, but character respect. 知识会带给你力量，但人品会带给你尊重。Love is like a friendship caught on fire. In the beginning a flame, very pretty, often hot and fierce, but still only light and flickering. As love grows older, our hearts mature and our love becomes as coals, deep-burning and unquenchable. 爱情就像友情着了火，开始时是火焰，非常漂亮，非常热烈和激烈，但是仍然只是光和闪烁。爱情慢慢变老，我们的心慢慢成熟，我们的爱就变成了像煤一样，充分燃烧不能熄灭。Mistakes are always forgivable, if one has the courage to admit them. 如果一个人敢于承认错误，那么一切的错误都会被原谅。Notice that the stiffest tree is most easily cracked, while the bamboo or willow survives by bending with the wind. 要知道，笔直的树是最易崩裂的，而竹子或柳树却能经得起风的肆虐。Real living is living for others. 真正的生活是为他人而活。Showing off is the fool's idea of glory. 傻子才把炫耀当作荣耀。Take no thought of who is right or wrong or who is better than. Be not for or against. 不想谁对谁错，谁好谁坏，不支持，也不反对。Empty your mind, be formless. Shapeless, like water. If you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup. You put water into a bottle and it becomes the bottle. You put it in a teapot it becomes the teapot. Now, water can flow or it can crash. Be water my friend.放空你的思想，透明的，无定形的，像水一样，如果你将水放入杯子，它就变成杯子的形状，你将水放入瓶子，它就变成瓶子的形状，你把水放入茶杯中，它就变成茶杯的形状。水可以柔软的流动，也可以坚硬的凝结，像水一样吧，我的朋友。                                                                                ——————Bruce Lee