【负能量】上帝之推

@TheTweetOfGod 绝赞的推特号……每天负能量什么的The next generation has been the worst generation in the minds of the present generation for 500 generations.在当前的一代看来下一代将是最糟的一代这件事情已经持续了五百代。If I didn't mean for you to eat pigs I wouldn't have made them out of pork.如果我不想让你们吃猪的话，我干嘛要往里面塞猪肉。Don't let anyone convert you into their way of not thinking.不要让任何人说服你接受他们不思考的方式。First I created stupidity. Then, to give it some place to go, I created people.起初我创造了愚蠢。然后，为了让它有个去处，我创造了人。If I could give one piece of advice to help you avoid the hardships and misery of this world, I wouldn't.如果我能给你们一条建议让你们绕开这世间的艰辛与苦难，我不给。Don't despair. It's always been this bad. You've just gotten better at noticing it.不要绝望。世界一直是这么糟糕。只是你的观察力进步了。It's too bad the meaning of life is 141 characters.真遗憾，人生的意义是141个字。Age is just a number. A number that indicates your proximity to death.年龄只是一个数字。一个衡量你离死还有多远的数字。The people who think the world will end all at once will be largely responsible for it ending gradually.那些认为世界将在瞬间毁灭的人，要为它逐渐毁灭而负责。Life is unfair, but that's a good thing. If it were fair things would go even worse for you.人生不公平，这是件好事。要真的公平的话，你的处境只会更糟。You will die. We apologize for the inconvenience.你会死。对此造成的不便我们深表歉意。The Bible is 100% accurate. Especially when thrown at close range.圣经是100%准确的。尤其是近距离投掷的时候。Just because some idiot disagrees with you doesn't make you not an idiot.有傻逼和你意见相左，并不意味着你就不是傻逼。Your right to be stupid does not change the fact that you're stupid.你有权愚蠢，但这并不能改变你愚蠢这个事实。If ignorance is bliss, why is the world so unhappy?如果无知是福，这世界为何如此不幸福？It's not that I don't exist. It's that I don't give a crap.不是我不存在。是我懒得理你们。Orgasms are My way of apologizing for everything other than orgasms.我创造了性高潮，是我对创造一切性高潮以外的东西的致歉。Why do bad things happen to good people? To balance out the good things that happen to bad people.好人为啥遇到坏事？因为坏人也会遇到好事。Telling people to kill in My name was probably the worst PR advice I ever received.让人们以我的名义杀戮，大概是我收到过的最差劲的公关建议。If you don't think you can go gay to heaven, go straight to hell.如果你不觉得弯着能上天堂，那就直下地狱好了。Sometimes things have to get worse before they can get even worse.有时候事情要先变糟才能变得更糟。Stop comparing Me to an "imaginary friend". I'm not your friend.不要把我和“想象中的朋友”相提并论。我才不是你朋友。Your life flashes before your eyes right before you die. It takes an average of 70-80 years.临死之前，你的全部生命会闪现在你的眼前。全过程一般需要70-80年。There is no past. There is no future. There is only this moment. And you're using it to read this?!?没有过去。也没有未来。只有此刻。而你把它花在读这玩意儿上？Attention: Due to maintenance, the laws of physics will be suspended from 11pm to 6am this evening. We apologize for the inconvenience.注意：由于维护需求，物理定律将在今晚11点到明早6点暂停服务。我们对可能造成的不便深表歉意。To err is human, to refuse to acknowledge it even more so.犯错乃人之天性，拒绝承认错误尤其如此。I could kill you all Myself, but it's morefun watching you do it.我当然能把你们全干掉，但看你们自己干要更好玩嘛。If the Earth swallowed you all up whole there's not a court in the universe that wouldn't rule it self-defense.如果地球哪天把你们全吞掉，任何一个宇宙法庭都会裁决为正当防卫的。Looking back, I guess making those other 700,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 stars was a bit unnecessary.现在想来，创造另外那些700,000,000,000,000,000,000,000颗星星好像有点儿不太必要啊。My son died for your sins, and I'll never forgive you for that.我儿子为你们的罪而死。我永远都不会原谅你们。I apologize to 20% of you for the other 80%.因为世界上80%的人的存在，我向剩下的20%道歉。Things are never as bad as they seem. People, though, are usually worse.事情永远没有看起来那么糟。但人们通常比看起来更糟。Whoever hits you on the right cheek, turn to him the other. Then, having shown thyself impervious to cheek attack, beat the crap out of him.凡有打你右脸的，把左脸也转过来，给他看你对脸颊攻击免疫，然后把他揍成狗。