电影箴言

1.《蓝莓之夜》蓝莓之夜　　一个人总要走陌生的路，看陌生的风景，听陌生的歌，然后在某个不经意的瞬间，你会发现，原本是费尽心机想要忘记的事情真的就那么忘记了。　　One is always on a strange road, watching strange scenery and listening to strange music. Then one day, you will find that the things you try hard to forget are already gone.　　2.《飞屋环游记》飞屋环游记　　幸福，不是长生不老，不是大鱼大肉，不是权倾朝野。幸福是每一个微小的生活愿望达成。当你想吃的时候有得吃，想被爱的时候有人来爱你。　　Happiness is not about being immortal nor having food or rights in one's hand. It’s about having each tiny wish come true, or having something to eat when you are hungry or having someone's love when you need love.　　3.《当哈利遇见莎莉》当哈利遇见莎莉　　爱情是灯，友情是影子，当灯灭了，你会发现你的周围都是影子。朋友，是在最后可以给你力量的人。　　Love is a lamp, while friendship is the shadow. When the lamp is off,you will find the shadow everywhere. Friend is who can give you strength at last.　　4.《剪刀手爱德华》剪刀手爱德华　　我爱你不是因为你是谁，而是我在你面前可以是谁。　　I love you not for who you are, but for who I am with you.　　5.《恋夏500天》恋夏500天　　爱情，要么让人成熟，要么让人堕落。　　Love makes man grow up or sink down.　　6.《如果能再爱一次》如果能再爱一次　　举得起放得下的叫举重，举得起放不下的叫负重。可惜，大多数人的爱情，都是负重的。　　If you can hold something up and put it down, it is called weight-lifting; if you can hold something up but can never put it down,it's called burden-bearing. Pitifully, most of people are bearing heavy burdens when they are in love.　　7.《廊桥遗梦》廊桥遗梦　　我们每个人都生活在各自的过去中，人们会用一分钟的时间去认识一个人，用一小时的时间去喜欢一个人，再用一天的时间去爱上一个人，到最后呢，却要用一辈子的时间去忘记一个人。　　We all live in the past. We take a minute to know someone, one hour to like someone, and one day to love someone, but the whole life to forget someone　　8.《泰坦尼克号》泰坦尼克号　　一个人一生可以爱上很多的人，等你获得真正属于你的幸福之后，你就会明白一起的伤痛其实是一种财富，它让你学会更好地去把握和珍惜你爱的人。　　One may fall in love with many people during the lifetime. When youfinally get your own happiness, you will understand the previoussadness is kind of treasure, which makes you better to hold and cherish the people you love　　9.《初恋50次》初恋50次　　年轻的时候会想要谈很多次恋爱，但是随着年龄的增长，终于领悟到爱一个人，就算用一辈子的时间，还是会嫌不够。慢慢地去了解这个人，体谅这个人，直到爱上为止，是需要有非常宽大的胸襟才行。　　When you are young, you may want several love experiences. But as time goes on, you will realize that if you really love someone, the whole life will not be enough. You need time to know, to forgive and to love.All this needs a very big mind.　　10.《单身公寓》单身公寓　　当明天变成了今天成为了昨天，最后成为记忆里不再重要的某一天，我们突然发现自己在不知不觉中已被时间推着向前走，这不是静止火车里，与相邻列车交错时，仿佛自己在前进的错觉，而是我们真实的在成长，在这件事里成了另一个自己。　　When tomorrow turns in today, yesterday, and someday that no more important in your memory, we suddenly realize that we r pushed forward by time. This is not a train in still in which you may feel forward when another train goes by. It is the truth that we've all grown up.And we become different.　　11.《分手信》《分手信》　　离开我就别安慰我，要知道每一次缝补也会遭遇穿刺的痛。　　If you leave me, please don't comfort me because each sewing has to meet stinging pain. 　　12.《曾经》曾经　　曾经拥有的，不要忘记。不能得到的，更要珍惜。属于自己的，不要放弃。已经失去的，留作回忆。　　Don’t forget the things you once you owned. Treasure the things you can’t get. Don't give up the things that belong to you and keep those lost things in memory.　　13.《西雅图夜未眠》西雅图夜未眠　　我喜欢并习惯了对变化的东西保持着距离，这样才会知道什么是最不会被时间抛弃的准则。比如爱一个人，充满变数，我于是后退一步，静静的看着，直到看见真诚的感情。　　I love and am used to keeping a distance with those changed things.Only in this way can I know what will not be abandoned by time. For example, when you love someone, changes are all around. Then I step backward and watching it silently, then I see the true feelings.　　14.《两小无猜》 两小无猜　　好的爱情是你通过一个人看到整个世界，坏的爱情是你为了一个人舍弃世界。　　Good love makes you see the whole world from one person while bad love makes you abandon the whole world for one person.　　15.《冷山》冷山　　在自己面前，应该一直留有一个地方，独自留在那里。然后去爱。不知道是什么，不知道是谁，不知道如何去爱，也不知道可以爱多久。只是等待一次爱情，也许永远都没有人。可是，这种等待，就是爱情本身。　　We shall always save a place for ourselves, only for ourselves. And then begin to love. Have no idea of what it is, who he is, how to love or how long it will be. Just wait for one love. Maybe no one will come out, but this kind of waiting is the love itself.　　16.《天使爱美丽》天使爱美丽　　有谁不曾为那暗恋而痛苦？我们总以为那份痴情很重，很重，是世上最重的重量。有一天，暮然回首，我们才发现，它一直都是很轻，很轻的。我们以为爱的很深，很深，来日岁月，会让你知道，它不过很浅，很浅。最深和最重的爱，必须和时日一起成长。　　Is there anyone who hasn't suffered for the secret love? We always think that love is very heavy, heavy and could be the heaviest thing in the world. But one day, when you look back, you suddenly realize that it's always light, light. We all thought love was very deep, but in fact it's very thin. The deepest and heaviest love must grow up with the time.　　17.《附注我爱你》附注我爱你　　在这个世界上，只有真正快乐的男人，才能带给女人真正的快乐。　　In this world, only those men who really feel happy can give women happiness.　　18.《英国病人》英国病人　　一段不被接受的爱情，需要的不是伤心，而是时间，一段可以用来遗忘的时间。一颗被深深伤了的心，需要的不是同情，而是明白。　　An unacceptable love needs no sorrow but time- sometime for forgetting.A badly-hurt heart needs no sympathy but understanding.　　19.《返老还童》返老还童　　我知道这世上有人在等我，尽管我不知道我在等谁。但是因为这样，我每天都非常快乐。　　I know someone in the world is waiting for me, although I've no idea of who he is. But I feel happy every day for this.　　20.《恋恋笔记本》恋恋笔记本　　一生至少该有一次，为了某个人而忘了自己，不求有结果，不求同行，不求曾经拥有，甚至不求你爱我。只求在我最美的年华里，遇到你。　　In your life, there will at least one time that you forget yourself for someone, asking for no result, no company, no ownership nor love. Just sk for meeting you in my most beautiful years.　　21.《阿甘正传》阿甘正传　　我不觉得人的心智成熟是越来越宽容涵盖，什么都可以接受。相反，我觉得那应该是一个逐渐剔除的过程，知道自己最重要的是什么，知道不重要的东西是什么。而后，做一个纯简的人。　　I don't think that when people grow up, they will become more broad-minded and can accept everything. Conversely, I think it's aselecting process, knowing what's the most important and what's the least. And then be a simple man.　　　　22.《看得见风景的房间》看得见风景的房间　　当你的心真的在痛，眼泪快要流下来的时候，那就赶快抬头看看，这片曾经属于我们的天空；当天依旧是那么的广阔，云依旧那么的潇洒，那就不应该哭，因为我的离去，并没有带走你的世界。　　When you feel hurt and your tears are gonna to drop. Please look up and have a look at the sky once belongs to us. If the sky is still vast , clouds are still clear, you shall not cry because my leave doesn't take away the world that belongs to you.