You never say "Thank you ' in the UK

 Instead, you say 'cheers'. It is weird how I feel another kind of identity shift here. When I introduced my self, I said 'I study in the US." People would be like, oh yeah, your accent -- AS IF I were from the US. This is when I felt another kind of alienation, a bit of amusement tinged with some nausea. I never said 'cheers' though, and never will, never AS IF I were an English man.今天回家的路上我坐在29路车上读二手康德。回家之前我问了教授这样一个问题：Do all these things about jugment of taste has something to do with his metaphysical ambitions? Did he presuppose the validity of synthesizing a priori knowledge before he started all his arguments, cause I found his arguments about jugment of taste more slippery than his other judgments. 教授转了转几乎透明的眼睛，透过深邃的眼镜看着我说：Well, It is true that Kant has the metaphysical ambitions, but almost everyone has the ambition to a system of knowledge. 我说:Not Hume, he doubts the possibility of metaphysical systems. 教授说: Well, scepticism is a system, but there are philosophers who doesn't have the ambitions for a system, say Nietzche, and x, and y and xx...Anyway, it is not fair to say that Kant's judgments of taste is based on the metaphysical pressuppositions (with out proper justifications). It might be an OBSERVATION of yours, but in order to make it a CRITICISM, you need to find evidence and argue for it.OK, sorry for this much of jargon. Basically what I got from the conversationis, to put it in a cynical way, is that first, in order to refute well-organized hypocritical bullshit, you need to settle down and organize more such bullshit as if you are really passionate about it; second, 虽然我不了解尼采，但可能他是一个更加正直的人。Anyway, there is always truth in bullshit, and the utterance of truth might always lie in the form of bullshit. More, we cannot judge someone without considering his historical background: at last, 没有康德的伪善，就没有尼采的正直。OK, enough said about bullshit. 今天回家的路上我坐在29路上读康德，一黑哥们儿跳了上来，没有刷卡，毫无廉耻地原地转了一圈开始唱歌：we gonna have hot sex tonight, tonight! 掏出手机，放着音乐旁若无人地一边摇摆一边唱。过了一会儿上来了一个白色的哥们儿，两个人聊了起来，白色的哥们儿断断续续地说他from South Africa，黑色哥们儿说Oh, xx miles from home, isn't that something...对话继续，我下车之前开始了好玩的部分，黑色哥们儿用全车人都能听见的音量说：I love ladies, they are the best creatures in the world. No, you don't call them creatures, they think that's offensive. They are the best thing in the world! There are sexy ladies and not-sexy ladies...I like all of them, Chinese, Japenese, South American...I mean, without them, you and I won't be here. That's why we are here...我转身下车，下车之前我和对面的一位棕色的女性对视了一眼，我们都在笑。我笑是我突然间释然了：我看着那个blah blah blah的黑色哥们儿想：despite all the differences we have, we are facing the same problem after all. Social isolation and sexual frustration is in everyone. He who talks about it openly, we can see the reactions from people around him: all giggling and figure him a loon. He who doesn't talk at all isn't any saner. The only way to do this is to talk PROPERLY. This is where we are stuck in the cage of NORMALITY that we created by ourselves(or tracing back, by some elites maybe). But who cares about normality? As the joke goes, good girls are bad girls who never got caught. Normality prevents us from our NATURAL STATUS and pushes us to extremes. Maybe we do need normality for stability, but if you succeeded in breaking it and had fun, good for you! As long as the majority still obey normality, normality is still normaility. How evil is this thought? Anyway, 我转身下车，下车之前我和对面的一位棕色的女性对视了一眼，我们都在笑。我笑是我突然间释然了，我不知道那位棕色的女性是为什么笑了。