My Mathematics Paper

1 Business ProblemIn terms of the stinging competition of supermarkets in Australia grocery  industry in different areas Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) was required to record a report for recommendations to the Australia grocery market in 2008. One of the recommendations of the final report of the inquiry was continue the monthly update of GROCERY choice website on a wide range of products. Because of inadequacy of Aldi’s product line (less than 500), ‘Basic Staples Basket’ which includes a serious of staple products from the larger grocery basket such as milk, bread, fruit, vegetables and meat, was chosen to substitute for the ‘basket price of 500 grocery items’. In this business of  report, four hypotheses related to three supermarkets, Coles/BI-LO, Woolworths/Safeway, Independents and ALDI located in New South Wales, Queensland and Victoria are given: 1. Determine whether there is no significant a difference of the average prices for the Basic Staple basket at different supermarkets. 2. Determine whether there is significant difference of average prices across three States among the supermarkets.3. Determine whether there is a significant difference of average prices at different locations among the supermarkets. 4. Determine whether there is significant difference of average prices of ALDI stores three states. 2 Statistical Problems‘Hypothesis testing is a process of testing hypotheses about parameters by setting up null and alternative hypotheses and using statistical techniques to reach conclusions about the hypotheses’ (Black et al, 2010). Hypothesis testing consists of two parts, a null hypothesis and an alternative hypothesis. The null and alternative hypotheses are structured so that either one or the other is true but not both. In testing hypotheses, generally, it is assumed that the null hypothesis is true. If the sample data are significantly in opposition to the null hypothesis, the null hypothesis would be rejected and the alternative hypothesis would be accepted by default. Z formula (population variances known) and T formula (population variances unknown) are two methods of the hypothesis-testing which is used to make a decision. In this report, considering to the population variances are unknown, therefore, T formula and AVOVA (‘F’ test) are adopted for Australia Grocery industry’s decision. T formula:The steps in testing hypotheses:1.	Establish hypotheses: state the null and alternative hypotheses;2.	Determine the appropriate statistical test and sampling distribution;3.	Specify the Type Ⅰ error rate (α);4.	State the decision rule;5.	Gather sample data;6.	Calculate the value of the test statistic;7.	State the statistical conclusion;8.	Make a managerial decision of .