Beholder-Mini Projector TV Phone

Looking to combine your projector, Mini DV and Camera with your mobile phone? Well look no further and say hello to the Beholder! The Beholder -- Family TheaterWant an affordable and convenient way to create a romantic environment with your girlfriend and watch amazingly clear movies on a big screen? The Beholder Mini Projector Mobile Phone has what you need. With just the press of a button, a bright and vivid 30 inch projection will instantly appear. Amazing wall projection has never been this easy or affordable, enjoy your sweet time!! The Beholder -- Business CellphoneDon't forget, this amazing projector is also a cellphone! The phone is a high-powered, feature-rich personal communication and entertainment device with Bluetooth functionality to give you that added convenience of hands free calling. The small size makes it extremely portable so you can use it to show pictures and documents to your customers at any time. With a quad band phone, you're sure to be able to use your phone wherever in the world you travel. It's like a business assistant that goes with you where you go. The Beholder -- Feature Rich LeaderRuggedly constructed and stylishly designed, The Beholder takes cellphone convenience to a whole new level with a host of projector features and plays all your favorite media from analog TV reception, radio, to a still image and video camera. Plus it also plays the most popular audio and video formats. Best of all, this  comes with a 2GB TF / microSD card so you've got lots of storage to play or create media - yes, the Beholder also features a front and rear digital still and video camera for all those can't miss moments. This item is very popular, like  I introduced before.The Beholder is a full-featured Projector cellphone with a stunning 2.4 inch touchscreen and candy bar form factor just like today's most advanced projector phones. Don't delay, click "Add to Cart" right away and in a few days you could be the proud owner of this state of the art ready mini projector dual SIM quad band touch screen mobile wonder! Brought to you by the leader in factory direct China electronics and  phones - Chinavasion. At the Glance......Mini Projector mobile phoneUnlocked Quad Band Dual SIM CellphoneFREE 2GB TF microSD cardFashionable designStill image and video cameraAnalog TV, watch and recordGreat Resale ItemRef code: AJ2ggpQ8  