2011 Leo@DHA

1月 A heavy workload combined with deadlines and testy people can have you wondering if it's all worth the effort. Pace yourself, think positive, and handle one task at a time. By doing this and letting the January 4 New Moon (solar eclipse) in Capricorn fuel your ambitions, you'll weather the challenges and meet deadlines. You might even earn some extra cash for your efforts. But be wary of people who might try to undermine your path to success. Despite this month's job demands, you'll have plenty of opportunities for socializing and play. Mercury in Sagittarius, your solar fifth house, through the 12th, and Venus in the same sign from the 7th on, emphasize leisure-time pursuits, fun times with your children, and romantic moments. If you're single, a chance encounter could signal the start of an exciting dating relationship. 2月 February's planetary alignments are overall favorable, although you'll have to contend with some relationship challenges in the workplace. Most will involve communication, or the lack of it, and people who expect their word to be the final one. There will be little you can do to change stubborn minds, so try to work around the situation as best you can. Jupiter continues to advance in Aries, the sign it entered January 22. Placed in your solar ninth house, this expansive planet sparks your spirit of adventure and interest in the world at large. Plan a trip for May or take a quick class to boost your chance for career gains when Jupiter moves on to Taurus June 4. Business travel, however, is best avoided at the end of February. 3月 Avoid travel if you can this month. Difficult planetary alignments can trigger delays, cancellations, and lost luggage, as can Mercury, which turns retrograde in Aries, your solar ninth house, on the 30th. It's also possible you'll be faced with a mechanical problem this month, either a vehicle or appliance. So don't go far from home unless you're positive your car is in top shape. A new era begins on the 11th, when Uranus enters your solar ninth house. Although this influence also promotes travel, Uranus here will foster independence and curiosity. Knowledge will be a theme for the next eight years, and you'll be increasingly interested in learning all you can. This could prompt you to return to school to train for a new career or to maximize your success potential in your current one. 4月 You'll have a great desire to get away from it all at times this month when difficult planetary alignments and the April 3 New Moon activate your solar ninth house. That, however, is not the best idea, especially with Mercury retrograde until the 23rd. Communication, particularly on the job, is apt to be challenging, and the same could be true with relatives. Do your best to be patient even when people fail to grasp the wisdom of your words. Your star begins to rise as the Sun enters Taurus, your solar tenth house, on the 19th. Think ahead so you're prepared to grab as much of the limelight as possible in the next couple of months as the influence increases. That will be the best time of the year to act if you're aiming for a promotion or new position. If the latter, update your resume the last week of this month. 5月 May is mostly easygoing with life progressing much to your liking. There is one exception and even that is minor. Choose carefully where and with whom you socialize the last week of May. An out-ing could be far more expensive than planned, and it's also possible you could lose something valuable when in public. If you shop then, check the store's return policy before you buy. The universe sends luck your direction during the first two weeks of May when Mercury, Venus, and Mars align with with Jupiter in Aries, your solar ninth house. The possibilities are numerous, including good news from afar, a fabulous trip (or winning one), or a beneficial legal settlement. You might also receive education-related news, such as college admittance (for you or your child) or a scholarship. 6月 Much that occurs this month will be behind the scenes as several planets transit Cancer, your solar twelfth house. The upside is you'll hear some confidential information that suggests an opportunity. The downside is youll need to keep it to yourself even when difficult moments arise in the workplace. Also take care on the road and have a designated driver (or be one yourself) when you're out socializing. Summer fun accompanies the Full Moon (lunar eclipse) in Sagittarius, your solar fifth house, on the 15th. That week is one of the best of the year for romantic moments if you're part of a couple, and if you're single, the lunar energy could spark a new relationship. You'll also delight in time with your children and getting involved in their activities. 7月 You'll value any form of stress relief this month, primarily during the two weeks following the July 1 New Moon (solar eclipse) in Cancer. This twelfth-house New Moon, which clashes with Saturn and Pluto, will trigger conflict and controversy in the workplace. It also advises a high level of caution on the road, and in meetings, talks, and daily communication. Someone may try to push you into a decision, but hold firm and do what's best for you. July's second New Moon, in your sign on the 30th, is far different from the first. In addition to turning the spotlight on you, this New Moon accents your career sector, increasing the potential for recognition and advancement. Step up if an opportunity presents itself to take the lead in a project or team effort. 8月 Mercury is retrograde between the 2nd and 26th. It begins the month in Virgo and slips back into Leo on the 8th. Expect life to be a bit frustrating when personal plans stall despite your attempts to get things moving. See this as a positive rather than a negative, and use it to review and revise before making decisions and finalizing plans. Your popularity soars as Venus advances in your sign through the 20th. This is one of the best transits of the year for personal charm and charisma as well as attracting whatever is on your wish list. If you need a favor, ask now, and don't be surprised if others look to you for the same. 9月 You might wish you could turn off your phone and skip e-mail in the days surrounding the September 27 New Moon in Libra, your solar third house of communication. That's probably unrealistic, so you'll have to weather situations that arise as the New Moon clashes with Uranus and Pluto. This can spark disagreements in the workplace and heated conversations with people at a distance. Avoid travel if possible; it will be prone to delays and cancellations, possibly because of weather. High energy and initiative accompany the transit of Mars in your sign from the 18th on. You'll have all the incentive you need to complete just about anything you start. But you'll also have a tendency to push yourself, and that could result in a mishap. Slow down, use your common sense, and think before you act. 10月 Several planets contact Saturn in Libra, your solar third house, this month, increasing the potential for mechanical problems involving a vehicle or appliance. Schedule routine maintenance for your car and don't delay a trip to the shop if you sense a problem. It will save you money in the long run. If an appliance has a problem, weigh carefully whether a repair or replacement is the right choice. Travel and knowledge pique your interest under the October 11 Full Moon in Aries, your solar ninth house. Choose knowledge over travel, which is prone to delays. Read, use the Internet, join a book club, or take a leisure-time class. You might consider a college-level class that would add to your job skills and open up new opportunities for advancement. 11月 Life is as you like it for the most part this month. But family relationships can be challenging near the 1st and 20th when two planets in Scorpio, your solar fourth house, clash with Neptune in Aquarius, your solar seventh house. A household leak is also possible. If you need a repair, first check credentials or at least get a recommendation from a close friend, someone you can trust. Mars lends its action and energy to your solar second house of money when it enters Virgo on the 10th. Mars could add to your bank account, or just as easily decrease it because you'll be in the mood to splurge. Curb impulse purchases, and get a jump start on holiday shopping. First make a list, then look for sales. 12月 Just when you think things are going so well on the job, the New Moon in Capricorn, your solar sixth house, on the 24th, could trigger difficulties as 2011 comes to a close. Stay under the radar as much as possible while also accepting responsibility for your work. If holiday travel is a must, be prepared for weather delays and cancellations. The best choice, if possible, is to avoid travel during the last two weeks of the year. You'll find people to be exceptionally helpful after Venus enters Aquarius, your solar seventh house, on the 20th. And you'll be inclined to do the same for them. This is a terrific influence for couples in love, and if you're involved in a serious dating relationship, Venus could trigger unexpected talk of commitment. 