what am i supposed to do!

i'm just lost. totally lost. ok .i tried everything, literally, everything! i tried gurjieff's doctrines about the fourth way, didn't work out; i tried relax taught by hypnosis, well this makes me feel better if u would call that but i'm still in a horrible situation and no luck to feel at all, which constantly would i do a lot of awkward stuff. or do u wanna even talk about something before? ok, long-term hypnosis, not working, check; seeing a shrink, not working, check;believe in god or buddha, not working, check!what am i supposed to do!why is my life track so unusual and miserable!well, if u called that a mission and it's to make me  better and greater, i don't see any better or greater!plus this mission has been way too long. 4 years. FOUR GOD-DAMNED YEARS! those are my most tresured and precious times of life! and well, if i could stop being better, ask myself, do i wanna give up this continuous effort? no!seriously i'm not sure there's how much i can take. Dear god, do you know how much i wanna become a normal person? of course i didn't mean homosexuality. i mean i love that character. but nervousness? awkwardness when meeting even men which leads that i don't have a close male mate? and stupidness when doing math? and timidness and hesitatedness when facing sudden events? Oh God u gotta be kidding me! Enough for -ness-es! and u know what? I can't even find a person to talk to when i feel depressed or lost in life direction in consideration of my sucking characters and my wouldn't-turn-to-people-for-help routine. and even my mom won't help cuz she felt even more lost than me!and u gave me eye floaters when i was in grade in 2 high school which are still floating in my eyes today! Oh, great. i haven't been feeling the joy of reading since 4 years ago!and now i can only express my raw feeling in English! even my Chinese sucks! huh! So if u don't wanna let me be a great person, why made me think of becoming one? why made me, choose accounting, which i totally don't like and absolutely am not good at! why restrained my courage when i was so determined to change my major to English, mining engineering, japanese, or even Chinese! why do you give me the thought of challenging myself with a boring major? U know my dream job right now? Plumber! Nurse! Salesperson! Electrician!